Sure, that could happen. In fact, it has happened. (google D.C area snipers)
<rant>
It all boils down to whether you feel people should be free or whether the government should treat us all like babies from birth til the grave. Freedom doesnt guarantee you life, liberty or happiness let alone wealth, good health, and meaningful personal relationships. It only guarantees you the RIGHT (not even the ability) to persuit those things.

Too many people either de-value freedom (e.g. They say "freedom aint all it's cracked up to be if it means people can own fancy rifles that can splatter people's heads.") or they erroneously associate freedom with having a good job, a nice house and an expensive car. The more shrewd\cynical\practically minded individuals understand that what we have these days is largely an illusion of freedom, and within that context we shouldn't struggle against it, but work within in it to get as much for ourselves as we can(e.g. "play the game").

Freedom isn't always pretty. In fact, free societies are full of risks and dangers but those risks and dangers are (supposed to be) considered a trade off because "freedom" is (supposed to be) the most important thing and must never be sacrificed for anything ever.

But we Americans live in a country that has gone from a being a land where FREEDOM empowered men, to one where POWER buys freedom. And when freedom can be bought, then enter the zero sum game where for some people to have freedom, other's must necessarily not. It's not the Democrats' fault. It's not the Republican's faults. (at least not to the extent that both sides perpetuate the system) It's the banks and various other financial & securities institutions that have implemented a system that robs people of their freedom. What the Democrats and Republicans do is constantly manage "this problem" and provide perpetual damage control too this insiduous system. And you can hardly blame the sleepwalkers who've been indoctrinated into this system who like hamsters in a ball, scurry about their days, seemingly going places but never fully realizing they are trapped inside a plastic ball.

If you can see it for what it is, 3:10 to Yuma is a movie about freedom.
http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0381849/
Russel Crowe plays Ben Wade who whilst "captive" throughout most of the movie, is the only really free man in the film. Christian Bale's character in contrast is the most enslaved.
</rant>

Meh, forget all that. Just be happy.

edit: dec.28.2010
Bale's character hower was a pious man in the sense that he truly believed in the law and that his honor and integrity meant he had to abide by them and so would act only within it to try and save his family... he wouldnt turn to crime.  This piety is what made crowe's character like him.