3:10 To Yuma Review
version 0.2 by Hypnotron

*very very minor spoilers that you wont really notice*

I just came back from seeing 3:10 to Yuma. Its a very good movie but it falls way short of being a great movie. Some people may be so put off by the way it wanders into the absurd at the end they'll barely consider it a good movie, but I think maybe if they look at what could've been (what a superior director and screenwriter might've done) they'll find solace.

3:10 has got some really excellent characters and acting and really a good story, but I think the direction was borderline bad and I think a couple of aspects of the script (perhaps including one or two characters being changed for older ones) needed to be "fixed" to really make the ending work.

Its really a shame because this movie has so much talent and such amazing and interesting characters that you really want to love it. The Charlie Prince character is great and so is Doc Potter (played by Tudyk from firefly) who offered some subtle but well timed comic relief, and Butterfield played the western equivalent of a Company Man Bean Counter type to perfection, and even the dude Wade kills in his sleep with a fork was perfect. Seriously wow! What a great cast with great abilities each owning their charcter and makign them so distinct on screen but without taking away anything from the rest. I mean this felt like a freaking Godfather's cast for crying out loud.

BUT... the direction had some major problems and the script some minor problems as well.

The Director is James Mangold and in the past he's done some character driven stories such as "Heavy", "Girl Interupted" and the more recent "Walk the Line" but compared to "3:10 to Yuma" those were fairly simple. But the leads in "3:10 to Yuma" are so complex they deserved a more complex narrative and dramatic storyline in my opinion compared to the tense/action/thriller vibe that carries the film. This NEGLECTING of the drama really hurts the ending as it becomes way too much of a stretch for the audience to buy into the way this movie unfolds.


*MAJOR SPOILERS NOW FOLLOW*

Things I would change...

1) They should not have had Dan and his boys witness the stage robbery at the very beginning. That was fairly unnecessary. Instead, they shoulda had Dan and his boys find the survivor shortly thereafter and take him into town where they'd already planned to go in order to talk with the sheriff or whoever about the burning down of their barn. Then whilst the Wade gang was also in town, and with Dan's shirt all bloody from bringing in the survivor, have Wade meet him in the saloon to pick his brain. Wade ends up buying Dan a steak and a beer and they end up talking. Next, some disagreement at a poker table breaks out and Dan ends up being the only one to stand up to prevent some drunk bastard from getting his head blown off. Wade who didnt try to lift a finger is not impressed but rather cant figure out what he saw or why its effected him so.

This lays the groundwork for Dan becoming a sort of surrogate father figure to Wade. (bare with me here). Have Wade's dad been gunned down in a drunken poker playing incident. We dont even need a flashback, make it a dialogue reveal as he did about his mom only make it about his dad instead.

The effect is, Dan becomes more than just a "good man" to Wade who deserves some good fortune. He becomes a sort of lost father figure and it makes Wade wonder just what type of a man he'd have become with such a father. Because Wade is an introverted thinker and an intellectual and these are clearly the sorts of things running through his mind but its too big a jump for the audience to make. Throughout the film, Wade witnesses Dan being a father to his son... this was too seriously downplayed in the film even though it was clearly meant to be huge. But this is what I mean when I say they neglected the drama in this movie. I suspect a Director's cut of this movie could add on at least 30 minutes in new scenes to fill in the gaping holes in the plot.

Unfortunately, you cant tell this modified story as well with a similar age Russel Crowe playing Wade unless Dan is played by a Robert Redford or Clint Eastwood or some such older and well respected actor. I mean you "could" but it'd be kinda wierd.


2) the scene where Wade is talking to Dan's wife is incredibly weak. I mean they invented a fake reason to draw them outside with a rifle firing away and
a) Wade and the wife are as calm as can be while this is occuring outside.
b) the payoff of Dan watching his wife so easily get swooned by a smooth talking killer who knows how to talk and treat a lady is too downplayed.

This scene would've been more effective had it lasted longer, starting with his wife (scared) perhaps peering through the corner of a window and then Wade persisting to get her attention and asking her to pass some item on the table (that he cant grab with his handcuffs) Maybe he then has HER cut his steak for him (rather than wasting that moment with Dan doing that... stupid) and then smooth talking her while she was captivated in her task.

Imagine for instance Dan walking back in and saying "Wade, be good and stop talking to my wife." and Wade sacrastically at first saying "Yes Sir." and then sort of getting a bit of deja vu or something where it reminds him of a time in his childhood. Crowe could've sold that scene and that recurring memory certainly.

3) The scene in town where Dan is getting Wade to pay him off with increasingly more money is incredibly weak. Had they done the whole older actor playing Dan and with Dan not knowing that this was Wade the killer, instead they could've derived a harmless scene where Wade ends up either having dinner in the Saloon or wahtever with Dan and then Wade and Dan tells Wade about all the bullshit he's gone through in this town especially with his farm getting burned down... etc. Then suddenly Wade is arrested and Dan finds out he's been talking with a murderous savage(?). But it goes against everything Dan had already come to learn about this guy.

4) If you're going to have Charlie Prince be so adament about saving Wade, you cannot have Wade kill him so easily. Charlie Prince seems to love wade. He demands that the gang rescue him. There's no way you can gun him down like that in the end because that undermines not the goodness in Wade, but the intellectual side of him where he knows Charlie hasnt a clue about how he feels about Dan at that point.

Anyway... the ending was way over the top action wise with a gazillion guns against 1 and thats not really where the story breaks down. It breaks down when Wade volunteers to go on the train and because of the way the story comes to life, nobody easily buys it.

This movie is a huge disappointment because it could've been so great, but it seemed to tone down the dramatic elements and I think part of that may be due to studio mandated editing to cut the time down to 2 hours. Too bad.

If you want to see one of the best character driven dramas of all time, go rent Dogville and give it about 15 or 20 minutes before you turn off the DVD. You'll go from "wtf is this crap" to "omg this is hypnotizing" in that time.

Yeah this review is kinda all over the place and I think so is the film unfortunately. I really wish it had just focussed more on the drama and less on the various shoot out scenes. I think if you look at Unforgiven, they nailed the balance perfectly.
_________________
