March.17.2015  - All About Eve

I feel one cannot truly appreciate the genius of the script and of the performances by the two female leads without truly knowing chameleon's like Margo and Eve.  

The film is heavily layered and we see glimpses of the characteristicis that Margo and Eve share in all of the characters including Marylyn Monroe's character in the short time she is there.  Margo and Eve however are simply at the extreme end of the spectrum.  

I think this reality is what does at least allow people who have never truly known people like those portrayed with Margo and Eve, to still relate and enjoy because there's a little bit of Margo and Eve in everyone... even if one never openly acts like either.  The difference is how extreme selfishness, intellect and shrewdness are a relatively rare combination.  Any of the one without the other will lead to a life of poverty and self destruction.  

But the combination masks a fatal flaw of these types of people... they lie to themselves too because they are unable to love and feel love and the lies they tell, blame everyone else for their not being able to love.  This blame manifests itself as contempt for everyone.  If one does not exhibit all of the signs of complete and utter devotion and of surrendering their self to serve them, they will turn on you and feel righteous in the process.  They prove the theory that love is in fact action and not word.  Because they do not know how to show love to others (indeed they show contempt), they become disliked and unloved.  They do now grasp the concept that one cannot treat others like shit and expect people to like them let alone love them.  They are unable to change.    
 
"The theater" is a great setting for a film like this.  Not only does it come across as a voyeuristic expose for the layman into a fantasy world seathing with backstabbing that takes one beyond the gossip and PR of the print media, but "acting" and the industry around it, are a great metaphor for the chameleons of the world... two-faced-ness, fakeness and fraud.  I don't know whether in reality theater and hollywood are magnets for these types of people... but nonetheless, it's a perfect setting on several levels for this film's subject which is a character study of chameleons.

All About Eve got it right, the scene when Margot and her best friend are in the car after it ran out of gas and the playwrite left on foot to see if he could find somewhere to borrow gas, Margot talks about how a woman's number one job is to be a woman... but it was something she forgot how to do (or never learned) because to succeed in her line of work, she had to be man-like.  But a woman who is that driven and loses her femininity, becomes unloveable... undesireable.  She can be admired perhaps, understood, but she never becomes desired by others.  