(If you've not seen the movie, do not read ANY reviews about this film. I went in completely ignorant of the plot and I'm so grateful for having done so.  This is a movie that can be spoiled by reading any plot outlines.  Consider yourself warned, spoilers follow)



Where to begin?  This movie is brilliant and if I may be so bold as to predict, a guaranteed win for Best Director and Best Original Screenplay. What to make of Dogville?  Its like a Dr. Seus tale hijacked by Peter Sellers straight into the Twilight Zone.  What if the Devil had a child that was born into a state of "grace?"  Cast into the real world, would such a soul be able to remain 
Escaping the depths of hell, Grace (Nicole Kidman) seeks sanctuary amongst the towns people of Dogville.  

Grace falls in the end... seeing the towns people with a set a new set of eyes... those of her father.  She is no longer able to forgive all transgressions in the name of human frailty.  Humans are not simple beasts(like dogs), they are thinking & feeling beings and should be expected to be more than their nature or biology has defined them.  

Absent the rule of law and ethics, man left with only his morality (which are biological imperatives) will break them and rationalize their actions later. Punishment (or the threat thereof) is needed.  There was no one (e.g a sheriff) in Dogville to punish the people nor a lawyer nor a banker, nor a clergyman. 

Dogville doesnt really represent america as some believe, 
1) not representative demographically
2) as an American when i watch the film, i am disgusted at Graces treatment at the hands of the townsfolk.  And in the end, didn't WE all kinda want those mother fuckers *cough* i mean people to get what they deserve?  Perhaps WE (as the audince) admired Grace's _steadfastness_ to her ideals, but did we understand them?  Unless at the end you felt that the townsfolk should have been forgiven, then none of us were ever as pure as Grace was leading up to her own fall.  Maybe even i'm guilty of taking pleasure in her fall... that she was no longer perfect... that she was more like the rest of us.  Perhaps this is why the townspeople mistreated her.  They hated Grace.  Grace was better than all of them.  And so the men began to covet her, the women to envious... if only they could defile her... make her more like them... make her fall. 

Dogville made me feel hate.  I hated nearly everyone one of those selfish, townfolk.  Ironically, to hate the townsolf, is to hate that part of you which makes you human... your flaws.  Lars cleverly has us hating ourselves in this movie since we are all more like the townsfolk, then we are Grace.


Dogville, judge/jury and "punishers."

Dogville, human nature -- apathy,jealousy, strong or powerful praying upon the weak and vulnerable.  Pettiness, lust, humilation, using people, lies, perversion, leverage over another.  In fact, many things that people have done to each other for years.  This movie seemed like it should've been taking place in the medival ages, but it was in the 1940's.  Societies were civilized now right?

Interesting how the only pastor had left and wasn't coming back.  Need to rewatch that part.


In nwl town hall meeting where Grace speaks to the townsfolk, the narrator steps in and prevents us from hearing her message... almost as if to say, her words are irrelevant, the townsfold dont want to hear them.  And certainly we the audience dont need to hear them, we've already cast judgement on those evil fuckers anyway.


the near complete lack of any "set"   soon you realize that none of its necessary.  Clearly, the director wanted us to focus exclusively on the characters... indeed, strip everything down til all thats left is the people.


Grace... she's a christlike figure almost. Up until her fall, she never speaks maliscously of anyone.  In the end, the people of Whoville die for their own sins.


The citizens of Dogville, reluctant in their desire to give sactuary to a desperate stranger named Grace (Nicole Kidman) (Grace has only her (extremely liberal) ideals when she comes to Dogville.  She's kind, generous, merciful, forgiving.  Some might say she's all of these things to a fault, but to Grace, how can being perfectly good ever be bad?  She gladly gives her all to the people of Dogville in exchange for acceptance into the community.  To Grace, life in Dogville might not be easy, but the people are honest and hardworking and loyal to one another and just maybe if she can gain acceptance, she'll be part of a community   

Tom has no problems understanding the people in his town, but Grace is a mystery to him.  