My take on what El Topo is trying to say.

[SPOILERS THROUGH OUT -- Do not read this if you've not seen the movie yet or it will spoil alot of the symbolism]


Essentially, the story "El Topo" is an allegorical telling about the rise of the Judaeo-Christian theologies.  That it resembles a spaghetti western probably serves to open up the film to a wider audience.  Further, had they tried to portray the various figures in their proper periods, this film might've come under far more attacks from religious / political organizations than it did (and I suspect it did get quite a bit.  I wasnt born when this movie was released so can anyone comment on any organized hostilities waged against this movie's release?)

So how does the story go?  I wont pretend to know all the various religious references and symbolisms but I think the following description covers the basic story.

We start off with the figures that together represent Judaism and Christianity arriving on to the scene. Together the father (El Topo/Judaism) and son (Christianity) bury the Godess (picture of the mother) and Childhood (the toy).  In other words, women and children are to be subordinate to the father, the adult male.  (reference a book titled "Jesus and the Lost Goddess")  Burying of the toy also symbolizes the coming of age of Christianity and its emergence as a major world religion.

Next, the pair come across a Judaeo-Christian town where the inhabitants appear to have been slaughtered by heathens or members of a pagan religion.  Corpses are littered everywhere with entrails of cattle spilling out.  Inside the Church dozens of men are hanging from the ceiling and a wounded soul survivor pleads to be killed "For the Love of God" and they oblige him.   

They travel in search of this rival and lure three of the followers (who appear to be idol worshippers and perverted) out by flashing jewels.  They kill two of them quickly and the third is shot amongst a heard of rams/goats (rams are the symbol of Moses and the Age of the Ram).    


Soon we come across the pagan relgion (represented by the Colonel).  Judaeo-Christianity arrives and arms the missionaries with weapons and they take them and wield them against the pagans.  The pagans stand little chance against the arms of the growing Judaeo-Christian followship and puts up little resistance.  In the eyes of its followers, the Judaeo-Christian God is fearsome and powerful and before their eyes, their faith is castrated.  Weakened beyond all hope of recovery, the pagan relgion kills itself... its followers abandoning the old ways for the demonstrable powerful ways of the new.


Afterwards, we reach a point of seperation where Judaism casts off Christianity and tells it to "Destroy me, you no longer depend on anyone."  Christianity goes off and continues to spread and to grow.  

The next segment shows El Topo (still representing the Judaeo-Christian theologies) doing battle against the 4 rival gunmen for the hearts and minds of men. (His female follower says "Kill them all and I will love you.")

#1) It encounters Eastern philosophies (e.g Buddhism) and upon meeting him, El Topo proclaims "I cannot defeat him for he is better than me..."  In this case, El Topo cannot win on equal footing (on the merit of philsophical ideals alone) and so wins through treachory.  His followers refuse to be converted and are also killed. 

#2) Next it encounters logic and reason.  This gunmen believes in science and nature and hates what relgions represent stating "Perfection is to lose ones self.  In order to be lost one must love.  But you dont love, you destroy you kill and no one loves you.  For when you believe you are giving, you're really taking away."  El Topo survives this battle because on the one hand, this gunmen is sympathetic and tries to reason with El Topo... but El Topo gets the shrewed idea to distract science and reason by causing harm to nature.

#3) The third encounter is against atheism, but as the time to do battle grew nearer, fear of death began to cause doubt in this gunman.  In a prelude to their battle, the atheist gunmen points out that he kills the heart whereas God killed the mind and he implies that Atheism and Monotheism are similar and that even atheism is a belief system (a belief of no God).  In the actual battle, atheism attempts to kill the heart and fails.  Apparently the heart of El Topo was armored and to try and kill it was foolish.  But for El Topo, killing the heart of atheism proved very easy.

#4) The final encounter is against the man who believes nothing... completely void of any belief or spirtuality as well as the desire to have any.  In this battle, his foe was not a combative threat yet if El Topo tried to wipe out a foe that would not even properly defend itself, it could possibly destroy him.  So the simple answer was to simply do nothing and to let this heartless/souless foe destroy itself.  

 
In the next segment, after having survived the four trials, the old Judaism is killed by the female follower in favor of a second form of Judaism (less orthodox perhaps?) which had been trying to seduce the follower for some time.   

At this point, the story switches from its "historical" mode to the prophetic.  We start in a burried cave, El Topo (representing the old Judaeo-Christian faiths) is cleansed and re-born into his original form Krishna by the Goddess (the old lady dressed as a shaman).  Here El Topo realizes that Judaism was never his true/original face and so he shaves his head and face clean. (Alternatively, maybe rather than give it the name Krisha which goes against the religion vs name of the God distinction throughout, lets just say the original form of mono-theism before it began to be changed over and over throughout the years.)  In this cave we see a bunch of meek and down trodden who've been left behind.  They represent the remnants of the rejected\unwanted\lost\burried\abandoned faith as it was before it began to be perverted/mutated.  Their ugly and deformed appearance also represents how the modern beliefs views them.  We the viewer can already begin to see that its unlikely they'll ever be welcomed into mainstream society.

El Topo now representing a resurgence of this original faith(?), toils to bridge the gap between it and the modern Judaeo-Christian society in an effort perhaps to provide salvation to it.  (the saving up of money to buy dynamite is an interesting metaphor.  Was it simply to speed up the process or were some obstacles too big to overcome through work and dilligence alone?)
 
In the town below, Christianity has been hijacked/corrupted and is represented as a tool of the fascist oligarchy (represented by the eye in the triangle) and Christianity is virtually impotent against it.  

Anti-semitism is symbolized by Christianity's hatred of seeing El Topo again and wanting to kill him, but alas in the end he is unable to kill his father.

Finally, with the tunnel finished the followers of old belief rush to the town but they are violently rejected and are brutally masacred by the people of the society.  Krishna (or the original mono-theistic faith) seeing that the society is truely lost and unsavable starts the apocolypse by destroying the miscreants.  

It ends with some hope however, with the mother and her unborn leaving perhaps to start a new.

Then end.
-Mike 

P.S.  I'm not a religious scholar.  These are just my interpretations based on two viewings and what I believe the producers are trying to say.  I suspect i'm very wrong in several places :)  I look forward to any comments\criticism of these interpretations.  

p.s.s. (Sept.6.2013) after watching "Upstream Color" I noticed a lot of similarities between the starring character of "El Topo" and the Nihilist.  It suddenly makes the title "The Mole" make sense... frankly, the Mole and the Nihilist I think could refer to an anti-semetic view of Jews as subversive infiltrators that undermine the foundations of non Jewish society.  In Alejandro Jodorowsky case especially, and as a Jew, it almost seems as if El Topo is how he sees the effect Jews have had on western society. However, i think that is unfortunate because people of any race, faith or ethnicity is able to become a nihilistic mole.  Classic cases would be skull n bones and the aristocracy for thousands of years.