As a character, Patrick Kenzie is a very good one.  But he's a hypocritical, boyish prick.

People keep talking about moral dilemnas and doing the right thing, but I feel many are missing the point.  Patrick Kenzie is not a particularly moral man.  He's a smart ass.  He accepts a case (arguably for the money and the notariety) for which he lacks the requisite experience.  He pistol whips a guy.  He associates with drug dealers.  He threatens people's lives for disprespecting his girlfriend.  He criticizes a man for falling in love with a prostitute.  He confronts the same man after the funderal of his dead partner. He gains entry into a house with a drug dealer associate under false pretenses.  He murders a pedophile and covers it up instead of being a man and accepting responsibility for his actions.  

These actions I describe demonstrate that Patrick Kenzie is still very much a boy.  Patrick being young and inexperienced in life and the ways of the world were touched on several times throughout the film. His rules of right and wrong and justice apply to everyone but himself. Just like the kid who knows it all and can't be told otherwise he finds a way to rationalize his own mistakes but never fails to judge and look down on everyone else for theirs.  

Sometimes doing the right thing is a very selfish act.  But a man learns that sometimes doing the wrong thing and living with it, is the price that must be paid for doing the honorable thing, for being chivalrous.  Patrick was charged with saving a young girl, but in the end he condemned her because he forgot who is ultimate duty was towards.  Anabelle who?  He couldn't even remember the name of Amanda's rather famous doll.  He didn't start actually caring about Amanda until the final few scenes (which is also debateable... for all we know he is merely trying to reassure himself that he was right and everybody else was wrong).  Up until that point, Amanda was a job. Amanda was something to be found. Amanda was a guilt trip.

Gone Baby Gone is more than a reference to a missing child.  It's in regard to the rude awakening a young, naive private dective receives as he is suddenly forced to grow up in face of the reality that virtually everyone but himself had put Amanda first and their own welfare second; that his actions weren't noble they were selfish; that maybe he doesnt have "everything" in this world figured out after all.  Patrick couldn't even admit it to himself that his reasons for returning the girl to his mother was a lie.  What he really couldn't allow was for other people to KNOW that he looked the other way when he had the power to stop it,all so that he could maintain the self dellusion and exterior facade of being a morally superior person.
