Lady In the Water
- My notes and interpretation 
- August, 2007.
- December, 19 2007 - updated.
- Hypnotron (aka box-11)
boxATmakosoftDOTcom


In "Lady in the Water" the basic story is of a Narf who appears before the inhabitants of the apartment complex.  Her name is Story. Story is not just any Narf but is in fact a very special one.  A Narf of her kind comes around once every thousand years and that makes her the Queen of Narfs.  She is there to see someone so that he may become inspired to complete a work that is sure to be "world" changing.  But for that work to be completed, Story must also be kept safe so that in time. an Eagle may come in at night and lift her high up above the clouds and deliver her to the heavens and take her beyond the place where she is now.  

But what does it all really mean? The first thing to realize is that "Lady In the Water" is an allegory. From wikipedia, an allegory is "(from Greek a????, allos, "other", and a???e?e??, agoreuein, "to speak in public") is a figurative mode of representation conveying a meaning other than the literal." But an allegory about what?  

It was actually quite fun for me once I discovered what I was watching.  I've litterally just now finished my second viewing and could bearly wait to type up these notes.  The first time I saw LitW was about 9 months ago.  This time (now already knowing the basic plot) I started trying to make sense of the 3 different "heros" (The Guardian, the Healer and the Symbolist) from the very start.  But about 30 minutes in it occurred to me that actually EVERY character in the film had special hidden meaning... that they each represented something unique!  As it turns out "Lady in the Water" really DOES have an "OMG TWIST!" except it comes in a wholly different form than we're used to in an M Night film but one that is just as awe inspiring as the twist at the end of "Sixth Sense."  The problem is, it is highly unlikely you will fully understand this film after the first viewing.  I didn't. I highly recommend you don't read below the spoiler line and watch it a second or even third time if it's been a while since your last viewing.  

As in most allegories, you'll find that the true meaning of "Lady in the Water" can be explained by describing what the characters and some of the objects and events actually represent.  That's what I'm going to do now.  Dare to keep reading?  Spoilers will follow.  You've been warned.




SPOILERS BELOW ---- SPOILERS---- SPOILERS---- SPOILERS---- SPOILERS---- SPOILERS

(The very next 6 words that follow this sentence contain the main spoiler and will ruin any chance of having a cool "aha!" revelation on your own so consider yourself warned THRICE!  )
















 
The Players
-----------

Pool/Water - The source of all creativity.  The pool in the film is in the shape of a brain as seen from a profile.  There are several top down views of the pool that show this.  

Narf - Narfs have different names.  This particular Narf is named "Story." (inferring that this is M.Night Shyamalan's brain we are inside of and that this is one of his stories we're talking about... perhaps even this one).  She arrives exposed and fragile.  She was born deep within the pool from all the little bits of things she had collected. In the movie, Story gives the writer (who had been stuck with writer's block) a new direction so that he can act again and complete a great work that will lead to a changing of the world. The "changing of the world" is a metaphor too.  It doesn't really mean he's going to crank out the next New Testament necessarily, but it will be something that will change the life of the vessel (that means YOU or ME but more likely M. Night Shyamalan himself depending on whether you view this "mind" as being his specifically although I dont suppose it really matters) forever and in a good way. 

The Scrunt - symbolizes all of the secret, hidden fears inside us that prevents us from succeeding.  When Cleveland Heep goes outside to look for the scrunt, he is told to use a mirror and that the scrunt would be visible as two red eyes in the grass.  Of course the mirror he looks into allows him to see into himself... to his own fears and self doubt.

The Three Monkeys - I'm not sure on this, but like the primal fear represented by the Scrunt, they too are old parts of our brain. Survival instincts or defense mechanism of some kind.

The Guardian -  The one sided weight lifter is Courage. Courageous enough to dare to understand our fears, to face our fears and to be different. He's not afraid to experiment even if it means people think he's a wierdo.  He doesnt care in the least what other people think. He is truely fearless.  
 
The Healer -  Cleaveland Heep. Represents persistance and the capacity to battle back from hopelessness and fear. He is positive thinking, a positive outlook.  He is hope and self affirmation.

The Symbolist - The crossword puzzle man. He is analytical thought. He can see the hidden order in what otherwise looks like chaos so long as that order really exists.  

The Child Symbolist - Its notable that the true symbolist in this one is the child.  Because he has a strong connection to his environment, he is able to find profound meaning in ordinary things. Through this he provides guidance to the others.  He has an open mind and can accept ideas and concepts that the adult symbolist cannot reconcile through analytical thought.  NOTE: With respect to the audience, I wonder if it requires the Adult or the Child Symbolist in each of us to make sense of "Lady in the Water" ?)

The Hippie Guild Members - Intellectual thought.  They are our inner armchair philosophers and pyschologists. They ponder about the nature of things; those things that makes us curious and for which we seek a greater understanding.

The Five Sisters (the second guild) - They are nurtering and support.  They work in conjunction with the healer to bring Story back to life.

The Guy at the 1hr 11min mark who sits alone in his room watching tv and never leaves. - He is the realist.  He is Mr Practical.  He is the one they search for when they claim they need someone "who's opinion is deeply respected." He is that voice inside us that says "Hey loser!  It's time to pack up your little pipe dreams and starting thinking in more practical terms!"  But that also makes him a bit of a drill seargent telling us "If we're going to do this, then by golly we're going to give it our best shot."  But the realist is otherwise not much of a risk taker or a dreamer.  He warns Cleveland to be careful not to end up like him.

The Guy locked in the Bathroom - Logic and Rationale thought.  Shame is illogical and so he also represents the opposite of shame who is played by his wife.  He is the guy "who 
has no secrets." When he finally comes out of the bathroom, his lesser half (shame) is supressed.  NOTE: If this is in fact M. Night Shyamalan's mind, its curious that this guy is kept locked away for so long in a bathroom.  But this shouldnt be a complete surprise since Mr Shyamalan is a film maker and not a scientist.  

The Wife of the Guy locked in the Bathroom - She is shame and represents all the little secret shames we have about ourselves.

The Writer (is also referred to as the vessel) - The writer represents creative action and doing as well as being the contextual link to the "human" in which they all reside. Grand philosophical thoughts and creative ideas are next to nothing if you cant implement them.  The vessel is thus the symbol of action or implementation.  Early in the movie the writer is just frozen into inaction.  When he meets Story, he is excited and arroused back into action.  She tells him that when his work is complete, he will die but that others will one day be able to build upon his work to effect change.  Note: I'm inclined to believe that because M. Night is playing the writer character which is more than his usual cameo, that he is telling us this is HIS mind that he is personifying).

The Boy - We never see him, but Story tells us that a boy will see the work of the writer and it will change his life.  He is destined to build upon what the prevous writer has created.  Thus the boy represents another writer and the concept of ideas building upon other ideas.

The Asian Daughter - Faith and belief in things that aren't always rationale.

The Asian Mom - Spirituality and mysticim.  This is why Cleveland is asked to act like a child before the Asian Mom is really willing to talk to him to tell him the story.  She knows that adults aren't as open to these sorts of "fantasy tales" and she's suspicious... perhaps not wanting to seem foolish.

The destructive critic - The cynical bastard that can only ever see the imperfections of our world and the people and things in it.  Nothing is ever good enough.  And the destructive critic can only complain.  It never tries to make the world better.  He is the opposite of the writer. Although he masks himself as a constructive critic for a while, he is soon unmasked.

The Eagle - Our creativity and inspiration and action and everything all coming together to manifest creation.  Despite fears and setback, we battle and ultimately discover that our dreams are realized. Rather than being trapped back into the recesses of our minds, or destroyed by fear and self doubt, they are let loose to soar.

The Party - The mind working with all the various parts of it interacting and mingling. 

The Storm - at 1hr 27 minutes represents a litteral "brain storm" of creativity and productivity.  Notice that the "writer" is not present in these scenes and is presumeably busy at work. 

NOTES:  When Narf is scratched she becomes weakened.  At 1hr 15minutes she starts to become overcome with doubt. She becomes scared.  She is in need of the healer.  But that is exactly what we we later discover Cleveland Heep to be.  But we don't know that yet, but the signs are clear because it is at this time when she is scared and full of doubt that he gives her positive reinforcement.  He tells her "You're very brave.  You're doing what is right."  It's a beautiful scene to watch in general, but moreso when you recognize that it's one part of a man's psychie consoling and affirming his own creative spirit.  It is a sign that the vessel will perservere and not allow his his product of inspiration creativity to die.


Noteable quotes and events: 

1hr 20minutes "Sometimes animals just look dead." Says the butterfly lady to Cleveland after they've brought Story inside to the shower after she was dragged off for a ways by the Scrunt.  Sometimes we may think thngs are hopeless, but usually all is not lost.

1hr 22minutes  - The original Symbolist speaks up and questions his role.  He says "sometimes one's purpose is not what it seems."  This was quite a profound moment I thought.  Sometimes we can think we know what our future should be like, and we may be enthusiastic about it, but sometimes those things just aren't meant to be.  Sometimes we interpret things wrong.  Sometimes we make mistakes.  Cleveland tells him "I was so sure.  I asked someone, and he knew." (in regards to the Critic).  The Symbolist asks "What kind of person would presume to know the intenions of another...?"   This is when the critic is finally unmasked to be a destructive critic and not a constructive one. Once the destructive critic inside us is revealed for the harmful force that it is, it is destroyed. But its hillarious that we find the critic trying to talk his way out of this unmaskng... he tries to convince the mind that he's not who you think he is... that he's really a minor annoying character and serves a useful purpose.

1hr 24 minutes - All of them are together "wracking their brains" so to speak trying to solve a problem.  Now that I understand all the metaphors, it really made me appreciate simple scenes such as this.


Summary:
Watching Lady in the Water is watching a live action personification of our mind working to bring a fledgling and vulnerable idea from birth to reality.  It's like a ballet watching all of the characters interact knowing that they represent a part of a larger construct.  This is M. Night's most artistic work to date (M. Night's "El Topo" http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0067866/) but also his most underappreciated.  Maybe this will help change that.  

To truly appreciate this film it really pays to uncover its true meaning.  I for one have suddenly developed a greater appreciation for M. Night Shyamalan for daring to make this film.  It's clearly not a simple film and that's probaby why it's suffered so much at the box office.    Nonethelesss, I say congratulations to M. Night Shyamalan for having the couarge to make this film.  *sigh* It's almost poetic that this film should not have been a huge financial success in light of the subject matter.  Maybe this film, this concept that became manifest, will spark an idea in another someday who will succeed in even greater ways.



