the theories of dogville and mandaley

- one of the darker sadder ones is the notion that once a people have been turned "bad" that there is no way to bring them back to the light.  Regardless of whether others took them down that path or they went on their own.

Blacks raises poorly, are not correctable.  Primarily, because the communities you send them back to are the ones in which they were created.

As for the goal of the director Lars Von Trier, i wonder if he's intetionally (and subtlely) playing to our own stereotypes, and to our own worst natures.  Grace for example in Dogville was done wrong and we as the audience subconsciously wanted her to fall and to take vengeance on the towns people.  So in effect, Von Trier shows us the audeince, that we are just as capable of evil as the people of dogville AND for the same reason the people of Dogville hated Grace (for her perfections) that we too desired her to lose thoe perfections and become evil.  Its a remarkable thing... Pervertedly perhaps, we want to believe that her "unconditional love" for the people was a weakness. That we should feel this way is especially rediculous since our savior Jesus Christ (this movie is mostly for western/predominantly Christian audiences) was this same way til his death.  This is a masterful bit of story telling i think.  Even if this is Von Triers hidden agenda, its still full of miserable truths about human nature.


With Manderlay, i think Von Trier is up to the same tricks only using black / white relations as the basis.  Here, this film seems to be a black exploitation film in desguise.  All the blacks in the film are mostly dispicable in the end... in the previous town it was the whites and here its the blacks who turn out to be a wretched bunch.  As for any broader political message, i'm not sure.  Id probably jsut defer to my ending views of Dogville... the story is full of miserable little truths about human nature... these two films have a "looking in the mirror" quality to them.  