How do these time machines work?

Essentially, once you turn on the machine, that point (call it Point A) in time is the furthest you can travel back to.  So if you have a machine running for 24 hours, you can step into the machine (at Point B) and travel back to Point A or some point inbetween.  The reason the weeble wobbles got so old is that the weeble wobble was constantly cycling between points A and B many many many times and was accruing age.  So in 1 minutes time, it made some 1300 trips between A and B accruing 2 minutes in age each cycle (a minute from A to B and another minute back from B to A).  But Abe figured that a smart weeble wobble could exit the machine at point B and then to return, re-enter the machine and get out at point A.


The essence of the story:

I.
The critical point to understanding the end game in Primer, is that the very first time in the movie when we see Abe walking up to Aaron who is sitting on the park bench listening (supposedly) to the game, its actually +10 hour future Abe already talking to a +9 day 22hour future Aaron.  Furthermore, the present day Aaron is drugged and laying in the atic.  +9 day 22hour Aaron has to provide the 0 hour Aaron he's drugged with evidence and a tape of what has been happening since 0 hour Aaron hasnt learned about time travel yet. So in actuality, 0 hour Aaron learns about time travel for the first time from his future self and not from +10 hour Abe.  

To be clear, 0 hour Aaron never sits on the park bench talking to Abe until 9days 22 hours later!  This is why he needs to listen to the recording of what he's actually said that day so that he can get things to play out as they did before until he can reach the point where he wants to change things.

II.
Why is that day so important?  It's not just because that's when Abe first started the failsafe, its because that's also the night of the party.  They dont show us the scene where Aaron invites his basketball playing coworker to the party, but in the timeline, this event takes place shortly after the park bench scene and after they leave Aaron's office.  Aaron is waiting for Abe to "bring the car around" and stops to tell his coworker about the meeting being moved to Wednesday and the party later that night.  For Aaron, this is the day he's been trying to tweak to get the perfect heroic outcome for himself (and without any dire results.)

III.
How come several days after the party, Abe and Aaron had been trading stocks for several days, and Karen (Abe's wife) is talking about how heroic it would be in the hypothetical punching the boss scenario?  THis is because the +9day 22hour Aaron we first see on that park bench, is _only_ recording everything.  He doesnt try to be a hero that first time. This way for future trips, Aaron can keep tweaking the timeline to make it turn out the way he wants.

IV.
At some point a 2nd future Aaron has changed the timeline and become a hero. We learn of this for the first time as Abe has unlocked the garage and Phil and Robert arrive and tell Abe about Aaron's heroic actions at the party when Rachel's psycho ex-boyfriend threatens Rachel and her date with a shotgun.  Abe never realizes that 0 hour Aaron spent that entire day in the attic.

After being awoken in the night by car alarms, Abe figures a plan that would allow Aaron to punch out his boss and then prevent the doubles in that timeline from repeating that action thereby (in theory) undoing the event at the same time.  It's this "theory" that neither of them could get out of their heads once the idea had first been thought.

V.
As they start to drive to the storage fascility, they spot Mr Granger staking them out in his car.  A foot chase ensues and somehow for some reason, Mr Granger winds up in a vegetative state.  Why was Mr Granger time traveling?  a) Well, since it had been several days since the party and since Aaron noticed that he had several days worth of hair growth on his face, presumeably he had arrived several days ago and went back to prevent his daughter Rachel from getting shot.  b) If he had only arrived that day, then one can only theorize why.  Maybe this was a Mr Granger from much further in the future who had come back to talk with Abe or to try and stop Aaron since who knows what kind of monster far future Aaron has turned into.   Why was Mr Granger in a vegetative state?  a) maybe he traveled back too far in time and the effects damaged his brain b) he slipped and fell during the chase and hit his head on the ground/fence  c) Aaron did it somehow and for some reason involving foreknowledge.  And either that Aaron was a future Aaron or had been given information from a future self.

VI.
At this point Abe decides that the only thing to do is for him to use the failsafe and go back to 0 day (-9days 22hours) and perhaps never tell Aaron about time travel.  This is an interesting decision since on the one hand, the current timeline seems "ok."  On the other hand, a future Mr Granger being here is indicative of a future that's about to go very wrong.

VII. 
Why did Aaron fold up a machine and take it with him?  Well, once you used a machine, it would turn off and you'd have to restart it.  Since you could only go back in time as far back as when the machine was first turned on, a failsafe (or any other machine) was only good for going back to that particular time only once.  But Aaron figured that he could keep going back to the same point in time by simply bringing with him another mahcine which he could assemble and turn on as soon as he arrived.  When he returned back to his original time, that other machine would now be available for use to revisit that time.

VIII.
At the very end of the movie, it appears that something went horribly wrong and somehow they missed their window and could no longer return to their own present timelines.  Aaron says he knows he messed up, but is also angry at Abe for some reason... presumably for not telling him about the failsafe.  Aaron tries to convince Abe to go with him to some foreign country where their doubles would not find them and they could try to start over.  Abe decides to stay in town and sabatoge their doubles machine to prevent them from ever learning about time travel.  

