the fail safe was on from day one that the first machine got turned on so that if they shoudl ever need to they could.  Of course to change the present, they'd now have to directly prevent their past selves from doing things and hence the drugging.

But when Abe went back, he realizes at the bench that Aaron had already used the failsafe

How #1) How did you know about the existance of the fail safe?
     A) The two rooms under your name on the storage manifest

How #2) How did you know what it was?
     A) When he opened it, he saw that it was running and given how long the panel indicated, he deduced its purpose

At this point, Aaron realizes that if Abe uses the failsafe before him, he could erase everything and even prevent Aaron (himself) from ever knowing about any of this!

How #3) But how could you use the fail safe to go back to a point BEFORE the run time on the machine?  In other words, how could you get to a point in time that occurred even before I turned on the failsafe ?
     A) Because he folded one box and took it with him into the failsafe.  Then he could use that box to go back even further.

How #4) How did you plan on stopping everything?  
     A) This is actually pretty ingenious.  Aaron decided that the first thing he should do via the first travel back in the fail safe was to drug the Aaron from that timeline and take over his life and record everything.  Then, he could go back in time again with the notes to himself and the recording as proof for when he completely blanked out BOTH the other two! (the first having been done for him by himself from the fail safe jump!
     B) But after the 2nd jump he was too tired from the travel to actually defeat his 2nd self.  But actually he never thought the 2nd self would resist his plan since his 2nd self would be fully aware of everything he intended to do.    After talking, the 2nd Aaron decides that the 3rd Aaron (2nd jump using the box he took with him into the fail safe) should be allowed to continue and that the 2nd Aaron would also continue (this is a bit of a paradox) We know that the 2nd self does the same thing because as he narrates the 3rd's actions at the party, he also tells you he could tell you what he had done during "his turn" but that what history remembers is the 3rd revision so its only the 3rd Aaron's results that matter.  The narrator from that point throughout the party + shotgun scene is the 2nd Aaron as we then watch the 2nd Abe and 3rd Aaron attempt to save Rachel.  In the final scene we see that their plan had failed and we can only presume that Rachel was shot and killed.  

Incidentally, Abe and Aaron could only speculate what had happened to result in Mr Granger using the time machine.  In hindsight we presume that Rachel gets shot, and presumeably Abe tells her father that he could try and go back in time to fix things and since we know they failed, the father must've tried to go back only he probably got out of the machine way too early and sustained permanent brain damage.  In fact, since the father was said to have 2-3 days growth, he must've been truely the first of all three of them to use the fail safe.

Also recall the point where Abe tells Aaron that it just occurred to him that they could go back and do that "thing" they wanted to do.  This is a lie from Abe!  He actually already went back because he knows Rachel gets shot.  He had already told Mr Granger as well as how he intended on fixing the problem via time travel.  The problem appears to be however that Mr Granger winds up going back at some point too and winds up in the same timeline.  My proof as to this is that when Abe and Aaron start arguing about what Mr Granger might have changed in the 3 hours he was there, Abe says "Well we didnt have this conversation last time!"  That statement proves that he's not in his own present timeline.  Aaron probably instantly realizes this but never lets on.  Aaron is now extremely worried about what Abe's intentions were on getting him to go back 


In the end, they say "You know this will all just pass" and that Aaron is referring to the notion that eventually his future self will get it right and whatever bad thing that happened will be fixed.  Then Aaron asks why are you staying here?  And he suggests "maybe it just wont go back far enough will it?  Why dont you put Kara and Lauryn  (Aaron's wife and daughter!) in a box and then you both can have a set."  The implication here is that Abe loves Aaron's wife and daughter and that if he could go back further in time he could actually make it so he met her in the first place?"  Not too sure about that, but Abe seems intent on watching them to prevent them from building boxes of their own.  But Aaron is convinced that it doesnt matter if they build boxes are not since from their perspective 

The intriguing part of this movie is you cant exactly (i dont think?) know how many times Abe has gone back.  At the end Abe says "you havent made me show you what im capable of...." and then proceeds to warn Aaron not to come back.  What does Abe mean by this?  And what does Aaron plan on doing with the huge machine he's building in South America?  Can you say sequel? 

The final scene "Every half meter, everywhere" refers to the placing of the matrix of panels that surround the time travel box and in this case they were going to be lining the floor,walls,ceilings of what looked like a warehouse or hangar of some kind.


POSTULATE #1:  Abe told his wife about the machine.
Evidence?  - Abe assumed that Aaron had already told his own wife.
Evidence?  - Abe seemed willing to tell the other 2 members of their team about the device.  
             all in all, Abe seemed altogether less secrative about the whole thing early on.

POSTULATE #2: Abe or his wife told Thomas Granger (his wife's father) about the device
Evidence?  - none.  Just speculation based on the overall willingness on Abe's part to tell the people closest to him.


