Dec.7.2011

Film Review
The Art of Getting By
  - By Mike Joseph
http://www.imdb.com/title/tt1645080/board/thread/192048078
-----------------------------------
This is one of those peculiar films where the protagonist's views and motivations seem to bend back through space-time and reflect the film maker's views and motivations when making this film.
 
A) Unambitious film about an unambitious boy. 
B) A cynical film with nothing important to say about a cynical boy who has nothing important to say.
 C) Effeminate film with effeminate male characters (and missing male characters).
 - i missing fathers abound. 
- ii women supporting their failed husbands. 
- iii an art teacher who looks like he sold his hippie soul to teach at a private school.
 D) Underwhelming and soulless bourgeoise film depicting many underwhelming and soulless pieces of bourgeoise paintings.
 E) Pathetic full length feature about pathetic human beings. What I mean to say is, that the "great silver screen" is being used as a canvas for a film about a bunch of fake, pathetic spoiled teanagers is itself pathetic and bratty. Where have all the great films gone?
 

There's one scene in the film where he sits on the bench with his mother and she starts to cry and there's a sense that this unappreciative youngster realizes he's been a lousy son. He forces an awkward arm around her and dutifully kisses her on her head. For that small moment you feel as if this kid is finally going to realize that he has so much to be thankful for... but that idea seemed to fade as quickly as it had formed. He goes on to finish his homework... a very un-Rocky-esque feat using a Rocky-esque montage and graduates as we expect. At graduation his disheveled gown and hair seem to acknowledge just how unremarkable an act this truly was. Yet someone took the time to produce an entire film about it.
 
If this was all by design, then I think the director deserves some credit for creating a multi-layered film, but I can't be sure this was his intent. In any event, the vast majority of people who watch this movie aren't going to be looking that deeply into it. Most kids can't really relate to these private school trust fund babies. In fact most kids will look at this and think "That boy thinks he's got problems? He should check out my life!"