Wow. I think the reasons for disliking this movie expressed here are flimsy and poorly articulated. "Acting sucked! Sucky premise! Ridiculous story!" How can any criticism be taken seriously when it's expression consists solely of one dimensional declarations as if they were obvious facts that need not be accompanied by rationale? I don't think they can.

In my opinion, what makes this such a great story is the discussion it encourages afterward. Here we are discussing what the movie means, what is it trying to say, whether the characters deserved what they got, whether things were fair... If you don't like to engage in such discussions, then you probably wouldn't/didn't like the movie. Do you have to be a college graduate to enjoy such discussions? Of course not. Discussing movies is not unlike discussing politics, sports, the weather, philosophy, religion, gossip, etc. It's just what people do.

You know what I think? I think the overwhelming majority of us would press the button because we press buttons like that all the time! You buy an SUV and you're contributing to all sorts of bad things happening. I'm not just talking about climate change, I'm talking about carcinogens in the air, exploited labor in some obscure part of the world where they make the fabric that makes up the carpet, people getting bombed and shot to death for oil or some other valuable resource. You go to the store and buy some bananas and it's the same story. You vote for/against some law that is going to cause/prevent hardship (or worse) to others. It's a domino effect and it's a zero sum game. If you woke up one day and discovered some long lost relative had bequeathed to you 100,000 acres in a rain forest worth $10 billion dollars to developers and loggers, would you sell it knowing it would be clear cut in a matter of weeks?

This movie is great because it makes us stop and think about our own inherent human weaknesses and frailties. I felt sorry for the young couple forced to be turned into lab rats for the benefit of some superior being(s) experiments. I think how people feel about the various characters can tell a lot about how they would feel about God/a god. I for one just wanted to say, "LEAVE US ALONE! GO AWAY! YOU HAVE NO RIGHT!" and for the half faced man to be shot in the back of the head so his days of manipulating people were over.

I find it odd that there aren't more people who are questioning the relative morality of pressing the button. I don't think pressing the button was wrong at all. Some joker shows up with some ludicrous claim and I would've pressed it while he was still there. Only a superstitious person would NOT have immediately pressed it. It's like the people who are afraid to turn around in a dark bathroom saying the name "Sandman" three times or some other silliness.

In many respects, it was their own anguish over their decision that made everything unravel. It was the loathing of their own human nature that caused them to venture deeper into something they could have just left completely alone. If the guy wants to take it upon himself to kidnap my child and make him deaf and blind, that is not my responsibility. But these people internalized all of these actions to be a result of the eating of the apple, the pushing of the button.
