i posted on Oct.29.2007 on imdb.com  in a thread titled "what is wrong with leland?" in which people were trying to diagnose Leland.  I wrote the following:


I think Leland wanted to be removed from a world that he felt powerless to change. And if you're not going to commit suicide, what better way to be removed from society, removed from any responsibility, and having control over other people's destiny's and your own taken away than by being sent to jail for life.

Leland saw himself in the retarded kid... as if he was on the outside looking in. Killing that kid was in a strange way, an act of murdering himself. But it wasnt because he hated himself, rather he felt like the world wasnt such a nice place to be in. He felt that there wasnt much to miss by leaving it in any case. To Leland, the human condition was one of suffering with only fleeting moments of happiness strewn in. Maybe he thought he was doing the kid a favor.

I dont think Leland had autism or aspergers for one simple reason; he had a tremendous capacity to empathize with other people. I think Leland projected a lot of his own sorrows onto other people, but in the end, I'm not sure any of them ever felt as sad and alone as he ever did.

All that said, I dont think the film makers intended for us to ask "What is wrong with Leland?" I think they want us to ask, "What is wrong with us?" They went to great lengths to point out that these so called "mistakes" we claim to make are nothing of the kind. You make a mistake when you turn left instead of right when trying to find an address. You make a mistake when you yell at the dog for peeing on the floor when in fact it was the cat. You dont mistakenly cheat on your girlfriend or mistakenly shoot yourself up with heroine or mistakenly hold up a clerk at gunpoint or mistakenly neglect your kid for 10 years.

And at the risk of stating the obvious, more than any legitimate medical case, Leland is a construct of the filmakers who serves as a prism through which we are asked to examine ourselves. "Why?" is the big question, but its not "why did Leland kill the retarded kid?" When you throw out the pitiful excuses like "We're only human" and "Everyone makes mistakes" the question still lingers and there are no easy answers.

And if you by chance come to the conclusion that "this is who we are" then it might make fill you with sadness and dispair as well. 



----
Then on Nov.3.2008 i replied to myself with this

and I just thought I'd add...

Why is it that when a person comes along who may very well see / understand the world better than most, be labeled as a mentally ill or developmentally deficient or otherwise unwell person?

Leland broke a law which is a societal construct. That doesnt mean there's anything wrong with him. Leland doesnt see the world the way other people see it. That doesnt mean there is anything wrong with him. If Leland is shaped through his life experience to believe certain things, it doesnt mean that just because it's out of the norm, that it's "abnormal" in any clinical sense.

Ok, he killed somebody that's true. But killing is not abnormal behavior. I think this is why psychiatry is a bit of a sham. It diagnosis people in the context of societal norms but as a species we are distinguished by many many different characteristics be they physical or mental. Clearly there are certain mental disorders such as schitzophrenia and multiple personality disorder and others where people experience perceptions of reality that cannot be rationalized, but this is not the case for many other so-called mental disorders.

There seems to me to be too narrow a view of what "normality" is. Normality should not be synonymous with the ability to conform (falling within a small range of "accepted" behavior). Because to do that is to declare war on being different.