Just for the sake of argument, and I'm not saying i agree or disagree but there are some philosophers (past and present) who would argue that choice is an illusion and that everything boils down to causality.  It's fashionable to label some of these thinkers as "crazy" since the concept of the existence of "choice" just _feels_ like the only proper view.  But as far as I know, you cannot prove that choice is real.  It's a matter of faith.

But assuming there is no such thing as choice, then obviously there can be no right or wrong.  

But lets not talk any more about that.  Let's talk about morality.  Most people believe that morality is absolute and they believe this again because it _feels_ right.  We do know that not everyone shares the same prescript of morality.  Some people believe that capitalism is moral.  Some people believe that it is not.  Some people believe that natural law equates to morality and thus if you're stronger than somebody else (in any fashion) than it is immoral NOT to take from them what you will.  In other words they believe that it is moral for the strong to dominate the weak and to have compassion is in fact immoral.  Capitalism is regulated precisely because (in the views of many) it would otherwise be an unfair and oppressive economic system.  Some say "so what?!" and believe that pure laissez faire capitalism is supreme because it best reflects human nature (i.e. is natural law).  

I'm not trying to make any point except to say that when you say "murder is WRONG" you're just interjecting opinion.  That's not to suggest I think murder is right because I don't.  According to my own moral compass, taking another person's life FOR GAIN or NON SELF DEFENSIVE purposes is wrong because I believe in the GOLDEN RULE and I in turn want others to treat me according to that rule I believe in.  But we should remember that murder is a legal term.  Without laws or social contracts there is no such thing as murder.  That takes us back to questions of morality which I already talked about which in turn takes us full circle to the notion of (ab)normality.  

There are two types of normality.  There is statistical normality and there is clinical normality.  The former in no way shape or form suggests that there is anything objectively "wrong" about a person who falls out of the statistical norm for any behavior or mental perception.  It simply says that Behavior X or Perspective X are the most broadly held and anything outside of those represents varying degrees of statistical deviation.  

Extremely BEAUTIFUL WOMEN and men are by this definition abnormal.  RIGHT WING Republicans and LEFT WING DEMOCRATS are all abnormal to some degree because generally they are off center.

Clinical normality on the other hand defines abnormality IN THE CONTEXT of SOCIETY (specifically western society!).  If you're an extremely shy person, then by clinical definitions you are suffering from a "disorder."  But in reality, what we're talking about is a classification describing how well a person fits into the society in question.  And by "fit in" we're predominantly talking about how well this person can succeed economically and to a lesser degree socially in that society.  If you're super rich and wierd you're "eccentric."  If you're poor and equally wierd you're "bat-sh*T crazy."

I don't want to belabor the point but one must understand and never forget that we live in a world where being different is about the most undesirable thing there is.  It's all really just methods of control.  I believe there are plenty of people who have bona-fide genetic defects or traits (e.g. retardation, downs syndrome, schizophrenia) that would make them unable to fit in with ANY society including cave man society, but the overwhelming majority of people we want to diagnose as having some disorder are simply being classified with respect to a narrow definition of normality that is constructed to foster control, encourage conformity and certain so-called "normal" behaviors.  

p.s. I happen to think that George W Bush is a freaking sociopath who is a danger to everybody.  But GWB is apparently NORMAL.  See what i mean?



