Nihilsm, Lost Souls and Corrupting Thieves, El Topo 	
  by TheHypnotron 1 hour ago (Wed Jun 19 2013 08:49:26) 	
Edit 	Reply 	
UPDATED Wed Jun 19 2013 10:15:17

I think that the Thief and the Sampler (and even the pigs) should not be regarded as REAL beings that exist in the story. They are personifications of various concepts.

The Sampler = Nihilism. Another name might be Satan.
The Thief = All manner of cynicism, dogma, cultural indoctrination (eg. consumerism) invented by man to control others. The Thief is inside us. It will get us to throw our money and lives away gambling, drinking, depression, and all manner of vice and harmful activities because the Thief does not fulfill us. Recall the Thief first tried to sell his worm drugs on a street corner. He then actively sought out someone vulnerable. Another name for Thief could be Demon.

Jeff = a former stock broker who really did become a drug addict and stole money to support his habit.
Kris = a film or video editor/producer(?) really did go on some type of bender combined with perhaps a nervous breakdown and was self harming. Perhaps she really did have a child die and was in a serious stage of grief and depression.

After being left rock bottom by the manipulations of the Thief which gave no comfort yet was insatiable in it's taking, the two are naturally drawn to Nihilism so as to renounce their belief in anything. This scene is depicted as the Nihilist broadcasting his message and the indoctrinated hearing it and being drawn to it and needing help to rid themselves fully of all belief. They appear to go from one extreme (having a belief even if it's destructive) to the next (renouncing all belief), but ironically, we later learn that the Thief is very much a product of the Sampler.

The Nihilist Sampler doesn't remove the Thief's parasite which had already been killed or run their course. He removes their spirituality (perhaps their soul) and he keeps it corralled in a pig in a pen (it's interesting that he does not simply destroy it). The atheist doctors see this missing tissue and view it as a great thing that this "cancer" has been removed.

We know the Sampler does not represent God because all of the sounds he creates are from man made objects. We know the Sampler is himself dissatisfied with his own work... he can't quite seem to manufacturer the perfection he seeks. Jeff is ultimately dissatisfied with his work and his superiors who tell him he should be thankful to them for allowing him this sterile work. He dumps the papers and attacks his boss. Kris too became unfulfilled with her tedious menial job printing signs and banners... even though guilt makes her feel she is supposed to be grateful to have a job.

The Sampler kills the piglets because they represented the product of love which represented a spirituality that he did not permit. The Sampler is satisfied when he sees one of his conversions who is window shopping with a mannequin like gaze. But the Sampler is never joyous or sad... even in death.

The Thief exists on the foundation of Nihilism which seeks to suppress spirituality. The faithless Thieves are able to exploit the lost by offering them a set of beliefs that provides no satisfaction to the Lost but which the Thieves can use to rob them by turning them drug addicts, consumer drones, gamblers, etc.

Individually if we reject Nihilism and just accept our innate spirituality and if we nurture it, we won't be susceptible to Thieves. Because ultimately it is our own sub-conscious nihilism that is the source of our own suffering. Many western countries profess to have a faithful population but secretly the citizens don't believe in a higher power, they believe in materialism and capitalism and selfishness and this type of belief only leave us empty and vulnerable to the Thieves.

This film reminds me very much of "El Topo" (aka "The Mole") 