posted on gamasutra march.6.2011

regarding the GDC 2011 "rant" session and in particular brenda Brathwaite's rant
http://www.gamasutra.com/view/news/33363/GDC_2011_Social_Game_Developers_Direct_Their_Rage_Outward_Inward.php
--------------------
	
Is there a video of the rant online somewhere?

Gordon Gecko's "Greed is Good" rant mixed with a little "Emperor's New Clothes" is what I'm picturing.

EDIT: I did find a video of Brenda Brathwaite's rant @
http://venturebeat.com/2011/03/03/now-thats-a-rant-brenda-brathwaite-unloads-on-
social-game-haters/

but it seemed too much like a bait and switch sell to me. First she talks about the history of "computer gamers vs them" over the years and then finally suggests that when some of "them" invades gamers' space to make evil games that gamers should stand by them? Sorry that makes no sense whatsoever.

I think those of us who view certain so called "social games" as "evil" do so NOT in a blanket categorical sort of way but with a specific group of criteria and caveats. So I see no reason to ever stand by those specific ones that treat their users like so many cows waiting to be milked.

EDIT 2: As an aside, an entire debate could be had on the merits of her "gamers vs them" history as well. I mean I believe in people having the freedom to create works and sell them obviously, but doesn't mean I have to actively support KKK propaganda literature. So just because games like Mortal Kombat or Grand Theft Auto had their share of detractors but in the end survived the attacks does NOT mean that there weren't any merits to the detractor's arguments nor does the fact they survived vindicate those games in terms of moral, ethical or social responsibility. Cigarette anyone?

But in the final analysis those merits are irrelevant (at least in the US) because we value freedom of speech above most other things. I may not be happy that there are more shows like "24" and "Who Wants to Marry A Millionaire" than there are of "Happy Days" and "Little House on the Prairie" and we could argue whether western culture is hurt by any of this but it would be an academic exercise because in the end we all agree that the government shouldn't be regulating such things.

So games having been vindicated time and time again over the years appears to be one of the implied themes in her rant with social games being just the latest to be added to the hit list and the next to be vindicated. But nobody is talking about banning social games. And surviving and succeeding economically isn't blanket vindication. 