
RE: "If you've ever seen a kid first learn how to walk, the look of joy on that toddler's face: It's fun. They're playing a game," suggests Koster.

Is the implication here that after mastery a game loses it's fun factor and folks will get burnt out or bored with certain genres after a time?  With the average age of the population getting higher, maybe there will soon come a time when typical 3d action games and shooters become too small a market?


RE: "We have the power, and that means we have to be responsibly... we actually get to engage in direct mind-control," Koster suggests.

I'm glad to see Mr. Koster acknowleging it.  "Mind-control" may be a bit over the top but if a creator is able to do things such as introduce or reinforce stereotypes, influence user purchasing behavior or other behavior outside of the game, or hypnotize users into a state of mindless grinding, then that is at least mind shaping.

This is why integrity and honesty on the part of the developer matters.  Media makers may shirk this responsibility but first they must at least be aware that it exists before they can decide on a path.

Are games a system?  What is fun?  Do these questions really matter?  If games are a system then everything is a system and that revelation is saying nothing.  How does this tell me what systems I should be making?  Seems to me that particular question only leads back to a discussion about mechanics which is where we have always been.

Knowing what fun is in terms of chemical processes or states within the brain can not help you to be a better designer.  If it's all just "learning" then again, beyond the realization itself, it yields no practical knowledge.

What I think does matter is what is the design philosophy of the creator.  Do they care about what their games say or whether they say anything at all?  Do they put the player first or monetization?  Do they respect their users?  Are they innovating and taking risks or are they cloning and suffering from sequelitis.

This is where Mr. Koster's "mechanical" theory falls short.  He puts himself in the impossible position of trying to formulate those things which ultimately cannot be fully understood.  The day they are fully understood is the day we've created an artificial human being.  People have been trying to place the arts & humanities in with the sciences for a long time and they still haven't succeeded.  We can produce crude models of human behavior and psychology and we can recognize certain attributes in good art, but we cannot formulate them.  

What is the hope and purpose of formulating game design?  What is the hope and purpose of formulating art?  Are we talking about creating "perfection?"  That sounds like madness.  So what are we trying to accomplish there?  Trying to reduce these things to cold mechanical formulations is equivalent to trying to reduce human beings to cold and mechanical formulations and this is inherently dehumanizing.  The purposes for doing so don't seem good.




 