Dec.3.2014 - Fan Fiction, Mythology, Tolkein, Biblical Literalism
-----------------------------------------

"Not really sure what this whole story was about in the end."

I kind of agree. I mean, fan fiction is a pastime. It can be a way to test and even show off your knowledge and understanding of a universe amongst your fellow fans.

There's nothing wrong with it so long as you accept that debating the nature of the rules and conventions or "reality" of that universe is nothing more than a fun diversion. In the end, those things exist to serve a story or even a product - so anything goes. That's why whether or not the Hulk can beat Superman style debates are just competitions where fans test and show off their knowledge and understanding about a fictional universe.

It's not unlike mock legal debates. But make no mistake, if one day the comic gods decide they need for the Hulk to beat Superman, he will. The universe serves the story. The story is ultimately not going to be constrained by things like the physics of their universe or by canon.

And I suppose some fans haven't learned that yet and so they do things like place great value on certain minutiae that the authors / designers could care less about. Sometimes these debates can feel uncomfortably similar to the ones involving biblical literalists.

As for the creation of new fantasy settings and races and lore I think the most organic and compelling reasons for doing so are to create mythology. And what is the nature of mythology? To demystify nature and the universe, to spread culture, morality, and customs through allegory, to dissuade certain behaviors through threats of punishment in this life and the next, to educate and make wiser through examples of people acting wisely and people acting foolishly.

In custom universe creation, if one starts from the basis of wanting to create mythology to serve a specific set of messages they want to convey in their story, then they are on the right track. The creatures (their appearances and lore, etc) you devise will be naturally engineered to fit a need(s) at a specific time and place that's required to best convey the messages and themes which are being delivered in the format of a story.

---
Imagine being tasked with designing the universe for a live action puppet show that will be used to indoctrinate children into everyday society. Maybe you'll come up with something like Sesame Street and the characters you design will fit the needs to convey various messages (diversity, fairness, kindness, respect for one another, problem resolution through talking not fighting, importance of education, etc) you are trying to deliver.

Imagine you've been hired by a king to tell the story of his rise to power and of all his great battles. You're told that his last biographer is languishing in the dungeon for sedition for making the king appear ordinary. You decide to embellish and include supernatural elements and mythical creatures and a great epic journey worthy of a mighty king and great victories and feats suggestive of heavenly favor if not outright divinity. 