6.22.2010  

me on games as art posted on gamasutra here  http://www.gamasutra.com/view/news/29048/Industry_Execs_Weigh_In_On_Games_As_Art_Debate.php


As Ebert said in his recent rant, the strangest thing of all is this odd need for game industry folks and game players to validate their work or hobby in everyone's eyes including their own by insisting these creations are "art".  It just goes to show how insecure they are.  Must we be so threatened at the prospect of our work or hobby being classified as low class?  Are we still haunted by the notion that games are juvenile and a waste of time?

I personally think most games are a very low form of art (pop art) like comics, most Hollywood flicks, and popular music.  It is clearly distinguished from classical works of art that are produced for the primary purpose of being art and not for making gobs of money.  By and large, games are products... widgets... and that reality implies a lot of sacrificing of vision and artistry which does not occur with a piece that is created with no regard for unit sales.

If industry folks and players cannot appreciate this real distinction, then there is nothing to debate.  They will believe whatever they want to believe (eg. everything is art!).  But this is the process by which our language gets watered down and how our communication loses precision.  Everything has to be black or white, all or nothing.  

p.s.  Do you think the CEO of SOME_GAME_PUBLISHER really thinks that formulaic third sequel to some AAA game comes anywhere remotely close to being on the same level of creative expression as that original Monet he's got hanging over his fireplace?  If you got him drunk enough I think he'd open up to you and laugh in your face and admit his job is to create popular mass media that appeals to as many people as possible for the benefit of his shareholders.

So I say get over it.  There's nothing (necessarily) sleazy about being a cog in the wheel of a mass media producer and creating good products for people to consume.  And there's nothing wrong with getting paid for honest work.  And there's nothing wrong with trying to excel in this industry.  And playing age appropriate games is probably no worse than reading Harry Potter, watching sports, 24, Stargate, or seeing a movie. So who cares if it's art?

p.s.s  With regards to supposed similarities of commissioned paintings and sculptures or the like I think that's completely off base.  I think the distinction is between contracting versus commissioning.  Commissioning to me implies carte blanche freedom for the artist.  Someone who's not terribly wealthy might have a need to contract someone to make a specific piece of art for them, but if you're wealthy and you're in the business of commissioning an artist, then you've done so because you've seen that artist's work, you appreciate his eye and his talents and you would trust him to "do his thing" and use his eye and his talents and his vision to create something suitable, appropriate, and great.  You wouldn't dream of influencing a real artist by telling him what to do.  If you did, you might as well contract some hack to recreate whatever image you had in your mind.  The most appreciated artists don't work that way.

You don't hire Trent Reznor to be your sound monkey attempting to recreate the music and fx that YOU hear, you hire him to create the music and sound fx that HE hears.  You dont want some proxy art designed by you, you want his original work through and through.   (we could probably get into a lengthy discussion about the use of art-by-proxy in game design and development)
-Michael Joseph