Oct.26.2012
Maybe our reductionist tendancies and reflexes are largely a result of capitalism worship and the consumer culture we live in. The consumer culture is anti-intellectual, it wants simple appliances over complex tools, it throws away and buys another rather than DIY repair, it pits PS3 owners against 360 owners,it's rage against the opposing brand, reactionary over thoughful, about winning rather than how you play the game, it's Transformers in your face action over subtlety and nuance, it's pandering to folks instead of challenging them, it's who would you rather have a beer with over who is the more virtuous, it's material idols and golden calves over principles and virtues. It is the One Ring that seeks to control economics, politics and peoples religious and social lives that many of us can't remove from our fingers.
 
We are taught to be intolerant and afraid, to view the things we buy and the products we like as extensions of ourselves and our own self worth. We develop a reflex to defend those things that we've made apart of ourselves when we feel they are under attack. You disparage the game I like then you're disparaging me!
 
But maybe we're beginning to see some signs that at least the markets for cheap, low quality media products are becoming saturated. Maybe people are starting to suffocate under this thick smaug as evidence by the shrinking social games space, shrinking cable/sat tv subscriptions, decreasing box office sales, etc.
 And I don't believe it's all just because of the slow economy and expanding and more affordable home video options.
 
We need to push ourselves and each other to become better people. I think the games industry is actually better than most. We have a lot of journalists, indies and non indie devs, and players out there who freely voice their opinions. Their unique perspectives, their unique games and their unique voices have created a welcoming atmosphere for those who sometimes speak against the grain and that continues to help shape the industry and our perceptions of it.


