april.1.2015 - The Perils of Realism and Simulation


D&D and role playing games in general are a great example of adventure games.  They are similar to Indiana Jones and the classic notions of "adventure."


A real life archaelogist today might look at Indiana Jones whimsically and think "gee, wouldn't it be nice if were really like that."  This is because a real life archaelogist travels with a great many comforts and is perhaps a phone call a way from a helicopter ride back to a major metropolitan area.  WHat kind of adventure is it really to be a modern day scientist?

But go back a hundred years or more, where death was 100x more probably or even 1000x in the case of sea farers, and show them Indiana Jones and they might actually be offended by its...they might find its cavelier portrayal of the adventure man offensive... because they actually know people who died.   

So what is adventure?  In the areas of entertainment, adventure is simultaneously, a film about dominating one's fears, beating to one's own drum instead of others, holding onto primality in the face of increasing civilization, working together with like-minded/spirited folks, but all by proxy... because all of the danger and excitement must be experienced vicariously.  Adventure is vicarious entertainment where the heros voluntarily seek danger and precarious situations... not for some lofty purpose, but for comparatively frivolous self serving purposes - if lofty, only ostensibly so because the real heart of the adventurer is selfishness and arrogance and pride - those three sins perhaps is the definition of the Adventurer).  Contrast that with the crusader who leaves his family and loved ones behind for a sense of duty to king, country and their god.  


There's nothing wrong with realism and simulation so long as you don't fool yourself into believing that realism and simulation is what people like about RPGs.  Because then, in your attemps to make a world class RPG that is the creme de la creme of all time, you'll be making something very niche and very different and then you'll be left wondering why nobody came to the party when you've finished.  It's because you didnt make the game they want... perhaps you made the game you heard them ask for, but people don't always ask for what they want because they don't know it until they've been given it.


(p.s. wouldn't it be interesting to re-make Indiana Jones as a young, swash buckling, archaelogist, world renowned and respected, a gentleman's gentleman... who when abroad in the jungles, the deserts, etc... quite literally turns into a racist, savage, brutal, homicidal maniac and thief who enjoys dominating his victims for he is the master, and they are the lesser beings of the world who exist only for his use and pleasure - and in second viewings, we find that it is also the philosophy he teaches at the university... only on the first viewing, we didn't catch any of it)

indeed actually, there's lots of potential takes on the modern day adventurer if one drops the pretense of the "good guy" and are not afraid to give us the amoral ubermench.  the drug smuggler, the boot legger, the swindlers and hustlers,  victims turned victimizers and who discovered they are good at it, 