http://gamasutra.com/blogs/DavidKuelz/20140513/217608/Why_We_Suck_at_Subtext_and_How_We_Can_Fix_It.php

may.14.2014

Thanks for this topic. I think you are right that the lack of intelligent subtext in game stories is one significant reason why non gamers don't take games very seriously.

I think intelligent subtext

1) Requires the writer start with a respect for the intelligence of the audience. I don't think it's case of video games and subtext not getting along, it's that the video game world so far really hasn't had to care about subtext or intelligent multilayered stories. Most games subtext comes in the form of archetypes and stereotypes... subtext for the masses. Apparently the player CAN be trusted when it comes to figuring out what the writers/designers are suggesting in those cases.

2) Requires the subtext be the real meat of the story. The original Godzilla and King Kong films were loaded with subtext. Planet of the Apes is another good scifi example. It's fun to rewatch certain films as an adult and discover that we understand them more fully... that there was more that the author put there to be understood all along. In these stories, the characters are often tools of the author for creating the subtext. In other words, the subtext comes first and the characters are often reverse engineered to serve it.

3) Does not require an outwardly complex story, just complex characters and situations that characters must contend with. "Prometheus"and "Inception" aren't heavy on subtext. They are heavy on exposition and trying desperately to be epic. Any film by Stanley Kubrick from (1962 on at least) is a great place to start looking for examples of films heavy in subtext. It's part of why his films hold up so well over time.

Subtext comes from having something worthwhile to say. Non gamers like the late Roger Ebert didn't take games seriously because games haven't had much important to say about anything.

"Papers Please" is one of a few really good examples of games that have something to say. A game like "Papers Please" obviously starts from there. It does not start from "I want to make visceral, addictive, fun!" As for "Bioshock Infinite" I think it's story is a disaster. If you want to sell massive quantities of addictive fun then you've already committed to compromising your goal of crafting a story full of subtext. Better off just keeping the narrative simple (doesn't mean the characters have to be cardboard), maybe throw in a twist ending, and nailing the executing of the character design, dialogue, world design and aesthetics. Do what Valve does. Focus on selling the world, the characters and the encounters.

But for some reason certain designers want to take big budget first person SHOOTERS to some unattainable level of Citizen Kane-esque greatness... 

-Michael Joseph
