june.10.2021

watching some videos on youtube about ancient religions and bronze age history and i thought about what it means for a civilization to "collapse."

Seems to me, it means a vast loss of knowledge which inherently brings on a dark age.

when people talk about wishing to turn back the clock to a better time, well... the logical extension to that is to wish to bring back a "dark age"

what we should be working towards instead is a more enlightened culture where knowledge is more democratized and not just held by the elites.

Because most people in the world can read and write, there's much less chance of a full blown "dark ages."  Science will always be able to return despite attempts by dark age wishing cleriks or clergy getting their way.

A question is, can culture become polluted?  Or is it just change?  Bad change vs good change?  Says who?

Computer technology could certainly be lost since relatively few people know how to actually make them... and most of them even rely on existing computers to design them.

Enough engineers would need to survive to build new computer chip fabrication facilities.

When you think of post apocalyptic films like "The Book of Ely" you see a lot of anarchy but also cooperation and fledgling pockets of civilization. 

In the "The Book of Ely" one society is ruled by controlling access to a water well.  Uncontaminated water is very rare.

Outside of the cities there are outlaws and bandits, but often inside the city there is inequality and oppression in exchange for security.



Is there a software game idea here worth exploring that shows what happens when civilization collapses?  Not just stupid shooters in the wastelands between cities where you fight mutants.
And what if were set in the year 1177 BC just as the documentary i a saw on youtube
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bRcu-ysocX4


Because loss of civilization and a reverting to dark ages is hard to understand.  Its also hard to understand what a "collapse" of a civilization means exactly. 
- eg. some people think all the people just die out but many do, but some obviously have to survive to start new settlements elsewhere... such as places with no drought.
- other culures eventually return and assume the land and build a new civilization there.

- why do rebellions take place?  people who feel marginalized become outraged and pick up arms and a civil war ensues.
- sometimes its must militias against militiages but other times it could be against para-military or actual military.  And military allegiances will be tested.  Some soldiers may follow rogue generals.

we also need to define what culture is exactly.  It's not just language... but language does evolve all the time with new words (slang for the time being) being invented amongst some groups within the overall society and eventually becoming mainstream vernacular.

culture is passed down from family and society and media but also from schools.  Perhaps all institutions pass down culture. 

clergy often condemn the liberal education and science.

people who try to change the culture are eviscerated by the dominant culture and even assassinated.

Gnostics believe the material world is corrupt and that our soul wants to become one with the divine.  But many modern day Christians believe all sorts of things and are actually liberals that anjoy the material world but just want dominance over all other races.  They fear marginalization.

Capitalism sort of co-opts all aspects of culture and corrupts it.  I think this is why we see so many mass shootings in the USA where regulations against capitalism are not as strong.  

