dec.1.2013

differently sentient

today i heard something in this piece of music i hadnt heard before... a voice that was crying for help, crying out of dispair and loniliness... but then accepting themselves and saying it's ok to be different, to be me, and i will no longer even attempt to change me just to fit in.

in the beginning though, there's just all the anguish and pain, but it turns to defiance and then purpose and direction


there is however an aspect of it that is still sad... being different and standing out may mean you wont ever be that person who is the life of the party, the center of attention.  your role in life may just be different... dont try to fight that fate, that plan the universe has in store for you, embrace it

but the cylons seemed in the very end to not embrace it... they were made so crazy and mad out there in the loniliness of space, forsaken by their creators, they wanted to destroy it and then because of the shame for having killed so many, they wanted them erradicated so that there would be no more possibility of having to look one in the eyes again.


Sin of the Father variant
--------------------
this could be basis for my own version on this theme of creators being persecuted by their creations... specificially, examining this madness that is born out of being alone, outcast, abused, and then the creators (parents) just never finding it within them to heal that child and heal that relationship... 

there's some hopeful aspects in BSG, a child that represents a sort of granchild with the hope of breaking the cycle, and there's hopeful music like "An Easterly View" that speaks to the opportunity of a brand new day



The Giant Robot - frontline
--------------
- wanting to be in a battle old school gladiator style
- honor, not this stand off fighting and killing people from miles away...
- puting more value in intelligence than in physical abilities.
	- if the robots are more about skill at using (eg like playing a video game) then it again, is an equalizer and fighting a Zentradi-like race of discplined strong warriors would be like Superman vs Batman... althought Batman is really a backstabber and a cowardly fighter because i think the real batman would simply snipe you.  i think thats why batman is such a convoluted character... 
	
i think giant robot was a sort of equalizer , but beyond that, the pilot was in the thick of it and able to prove his skill, and place his life on the line in frontline style of battles.

so the real problem with Macross/Robotech is... why build robots to battle giants?  why not just focus on weapons?  they are such large targets you dont need robots?   the question is... how do you rationalize it in a fictional universe and if you cannot rationalize it, how do you sell the themes of honor and skill in battle as being greater than stand off fighting?

Do the aliens come in and demand it?  "The terms of battle are this... if break these rules of the battlefield, we will simply decimate your planet"   Then the people have to say, well what chance have we got with these rules slanted in their favor?  The only solution they can think of is to build giant robots so that they can fight toe to toe in honor and not have to fight guerrila style

this makes them somewhat like the Jem H'Dar controlled by the founders... the Jem H'Dar were very much into wanting to fight close quarters and in fighters rather than massive cruisers.

I think really this just makes the concept all the more hard to believe and stupid.  I think maybe as a fictional show it can work when you suspend disbelief, but as an actual game system, it becomes too absurd.  Zentradi represent these larger than life humans prior to being made small through liberal culture.  They are turned from Samurai to Otaku.  Yet they lose.  The mighty warrior caste system brought down by liberal beaguoisie.