11.2.2013

last night i went to bed at ~5am and i woke up at ~6.45 or 6:50am after having a dream which left me very un-atease.

ive never had a dream like it.  it left me with a sense that there was very little doubt that right now, awake, i was in purgatory.  Like in the tv series Lost, myself, and all my co-workers at north end, and the people i meet in the cab... all in purgatory.  But some of them are demons and some are angles trying to guide me to the light.

my move from issaquah to lynnwood represented a move down rather than up towards the light.

i had this sense that on the night Preston really started to lose it, that he killed us all, and the lives we now live have been in purgatory ever since.

-

The dream itself started off with me in a dorm room at Penn State or some similar university.  A girl was there i didnt know and she ripped off her clothes, i took off mine, and we were about to have sex with her on top of me, but for some reasons she seemed intent on castrating me or crushing my testicles with her knee.  Before she succeeded i pushed her off, dragged her to the door and threw her naked into the hallway.  She was screaming like a cave woman trying to get back up and back at me but i slammed the door.

some time later, a big bruiser type character came who i think might have been her brother or cousin and he tried to make me submit to his will and i refused.  i knew i couldnt beat him in a fight but somehow i got away.

i called the police and a group of them arrived dressed in casual clothes and not looking like proper police at all.  But they were the police and turns out they were friends of the bruiser.  They all tried to inimidate me getting right up in my face, and i started to run.  

at some point the dream became lucid as I knew htis was all too absurd to be real.  i think i started trying to convince everyone around me that the place we were in was not real... and then it started to occur to me that this place felt like a type of hell that was designed just for me... that it perfectly fit the types of fears i had.

we made it into some courtyard and there was a huge wall around us and beyond the wall there were hills of lush grass and houses stood on them and people were on the other side and they would look at all of us stuck on the other side.  maybe htey wished we could join them or maybe they just pittied us.  i dont know because i woke up around then with this sense that i had not only dreampt of being in purgatory, that the dream itself was a message that right now i really am there.

i started to think about all of the events that have happened to me since that night in Brea because that's when it all started and if that's where it all started, then that's where my life had to have ended.  And i think about how ive been descending for so long.

I think about how on Thursday Nov.31.2013  i picked up a red haired woman named Angela from 20156 6NE and took her to Darryls Tavern.  if im in purgatory, maybe she was an Angel.  She had asked me for my name and even wondered if she could call me for a ride later on.

I think of drivers like Michael Jones the buddhist who i just started to talking to and wonder if he is an angel.

I think of drivers like Perry and wonder if he's just another soul in purgatory or something worse.

Same with Jim Martin...

I think of how switching to night shift was a sort of further descent.

