Feb.4.2010  10:33am


been reading this gamasutra blog post by Nick Halme titled "Leave the Meat off my Bones, Please"

http://www.gamasutra.com/blogs/NickHalme/20100203/4316/Leave_The_Meat_Off_My_Bones_Please.php

There is one key point that i think i need to remember and which i want to emphasize here.... even though ive written about it before


it's not the story that really matters, it's everything else you do that will elicit emotional responses from the user.  Yes its manipulation... like Avatar's blatant manipulation, but when you are a character in that world, as long as the manipulation feels honest, feels real no matter how cliche, how archetypal the characters are, if as he says in his article a single "stare" can relay so much meaning and emotion to the player, that is gold.

So it's really not so much about writing as it is about direction.

I think Blizzard is the master of well directed games with high production values to tie everything in together.

---------

in his article he writes

"I recall one mission in the original Mass Effect where I was helping protect some forgotten colonists, venturing out to turn their water back on along with other tasks to get them back on their feet.  I then defeated a plant monster that had been mind controlling people, or something.  There was probably a reason -- a reason related to the story arc -- that I was there.  I don't recall, and it's not just that I don't remember, it's that I didn't retain it.  It was useless to me. "


Now picture a scene in a game where the player defeats some enemy on behalf of the townsfolk and he comes back and unexpectedly, the townsfolk mob him, lift him up, first person view the entire time, and they lift him onto their shoulders and start passing him around, tossing him up in the air, and just cheering wildly and praising his name, chip chip hooray and all that.  

That's not really about story, that's direction.  Perhaps then a good writer is a good director because direction is about crafting an artificial scene to make it effective... to manipulate the audience as desired.

