Dec.3.2023


i ran across this video today and thought about how i could fit this philosophy into a future story... perhaps even into the scifi story ive been tossing around.  Or in the story about "the book" that a runaway princess feels the need to write.

it's interesting to consider the "face" that a member of a royal family feels compelled to assume so that the plebes have something to "attach" their identity too.  

people do need to be "attached" to things, so how do we decide what to attach ourselves too, and what to leave behind in order to be our "authentic" selves?

it's also interesting from a game design perspective, to ponder all the games that allow us to live out fantasies such as power fantasies, or outlaw fantasies, or altered state fantasies, etc.  It's interesting how so little of our "entertainment" including games, film, books, tv, comics, etc do not fantasize about utopias.  Star Trek, Little House on the Prairie, and perhaps few others here and there present more utopian lifestyles or socieites.

Key to these fantasies is the antisocial nature of them... being able to role play in game worlds and be free of societal and cultural norms.  Consider the RPG trope of casually stealing from everyone in town.

I think LotR is set somewhere in a Utopia that is being threatened by an evil sorceror and that is why people love the books.  But for many minorities, that Utopia seems pretty inconclusive and in fact, racist.

Harry Potter also seems to suppose a Utopian realm for witches away from the muggles in the Earthly plane.

Interestingly, these fantasies do not really include attachments to religion... in a way, they are atheistic fantasies.  Perhaps this is why some religous folk view D&D to be satanic... because they create fantasy realms where Christianity, et al, are completely non existant.

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mb5W9cMi6C8

the conceptt of authenticity and attachment and temporary adaptations that become permanent... its profound and explains so much.

Beyond explaining some of my own psych problems, its a great subject to teach people.

It's also intersesting to think about the inauthenticity that social media and the internet and frankly, mainstream media promotes.  It's like the Joker says, everyone is just mean to one another.  

But, i don't want it to seem too much like the Wizard of Oz where our princess character is going from encounter to encounter and finding allegorical depictions of real people from her life.

I'd rather it be more like El Topo where the encounters represent beliefs and institutions.

And i'm still unsure as to the setting... scifi or fantasy and if fantasy, what era? or even what realm if i create a brand new world.