June.1.2012

How to make a meaningful story for books, movies, or interactive worlds.
(Or How Hollywood and Mainstream Media decided they didn't give a shit about meaning... that empty stories full of banal, base, petty, emotional desires with criminal neglect for culture...  is perpetuating in our own culture a sense of meaningless existance where all there is is Eating, Fucking, Sleeping, etc...

Is this it?  Is this all there is?  asked Scarface played by Al Pacino.

Blue Lips, Blue Veins - Regina Spekter 
	- wondered into faith and thought, God this is all there is?
	
----

1) Culture of societies in stories where new or unfamiliar societies must be explored.  
2) All characters are then a product of those cultures.
	a) Star Trek did well in some contexts here, but badly in others.  The Federation's culture was never fully explained or explored.  It was just somehow a "utopia" but how the culture evolved (alien first contact broughtentire human species to unity?)
	b) 
3) Philosophies 
4) Art
5) The prominence of characters who are into studying astronomy, cultures, geology, materials, etc.  
6) Stop glorifying the banal, and celebrate invention, research, etc... quit giving us the equivalent of Paris Hilton's with Kings and their court and jesters.  Right now that's pretty much all we get. The ballrooms, the king's court, the frivolity of beougouise 
7) Studying the fauna and wildlife... and then making these creatures have significance in the story...
	- testing the core values and principles and philosophy of our explorers and the people they encounter when various flora and fauna propose challenges to them.  Are they steadfast?  Do they break their own rules when it becomes inconvenient?
8) Testing virtues and vices of our characters
	- cannot be too lopsided of just virtuous (Superman nobody can relate too) or mostly vice (it winds up glorifying that which should not be glorified)
	- there's a sweet spot where people's curiosity and imagination can be fully engaged.
9) This needs to be part of the new media renaissance way of thinking.
10) New age integration - This is one of the biggest failings with new games in the 2010+.  There's so much promise of bringing together more information for hte user via web databases, web stories, etc... to make a more richer experience, but it's not materialized.  For example, a lot more information about the game world, about co-characters in a game, can be fleshed out by giving really deep personal histories and information about characters that the user can look at in their own free time.  They can learn how then a character's past hitory has influenced them today.  This gets users thinking if even unconciously, that a persons past guides their future.

Essentially, it's all of the things that make REAL life more meaningful than just eating,s leeping, fucking, sniffing, drinking...

