
dec.9.2008
a comedian and the art of mockery in general is i do believe, is part of the overall cultural (and perhaps biological) method of conditioning and urging conformity and kicking out the odd and unusual.  I think liberalism should relate more to the capacity of a person to be open minded and be rational instead of going with more gutteral biological instincts and urges or even conditioned responses.  I think the worst kinds of jokes are those that make fun of people... including Michael Jackson.  The underlying message is that it's not ok to be different.  The second thing about comedians is they disarm people of their anger and rage which makes it easier for them to accept injustice.  Making fun of GWB was one way to parry the growing public discontent with his performance.  The court jester if you think about it, is welcomed for this very reason... making fun of the King diverts energy of arms into energy of laughing.  The jester is not the fool, he makes fools out of his audience.

dec.10.2008
the adventure/adventurer i think strikes a chord with so many people because it's really all about learning through trial, by doing, and sort of surfing the web of life to get from place to place by any means necessary and learning what you need to learn along the way.  Learning is what we do and the teaching is informal and because its informal, it implies learning as you go and THAT makes the learning always relevant and practical in the eyes of the unaware student/apprentice.  Learning ideally imo, should involve "doing."  Exams should involve the practical application of what's been learned and not simply the memorization of working out problems.  During the course of applying, a student may need to read and work out practice problems and such... but its done as a matter of working on practical things.

dec.12.2008
On Game Design and story telling in general

Watching the B5 season 4 ep 19 where Sheridan is being held captive on mars and it starts with him and Dr Franklin and you're thinking "WTF?!  HOW COME HE'S NO LONGER A PRISONER?!" and you feel cheated... but then you quickly discover that he's having a hallucination because of drugs and deprivation of water and food and sleep, etc... and then you're given what you want... a chance to see how he's going to get out of that situation.  But here's the KEY to this entire thing...  because the actual way he gets out is by being rescued... and he doesnt even get to exact revenge on the doctor in a satisfying way.. this "let down" or "anti-climax" was pre-empted from really occuring because you were given part of what you want instead of NONE which you at first thought was going to happen.  So the lesson here is, in the art of story telling if for some reason you are unable to deliver on the expectation of a huge climax, one way to mitigate the disappointment is by pre-empting it with an even bigger but FAKE disappointment and then quickly reveal that the "real" climax is yet to come. This rollercoaster of expectation will lower the  reqt of the viewer to feel satisfied with the outcome because they are getting part of something instead of nothing.