march.11.2014 - from human tale to fairy tale.  wolves in art clothing.  the death of the real human-like fictional characters.  the humiliation of the common man who has achieved greatness.
------------------
the paul newman boxing epic "Somebody up there likes me" is great.  Its clearly what Stalone used to write Rocky which really is jsut a simplified version of the Newman film where the focus is on Rocky and Adrianne.  What makes the Newman film so much better is that Rocky is fleshed out as a real person who doesnt just pop out of nowhere.  Indeed, the Rocky film as a revisionist history film is very much like the revisionist history of America itself.

At the end of the Newman film you get a sense for this revisionist history about to take place as they make a champion into a national hero.  But it degrades the actual human life to white wash it... it also becomes less inspirational to the real children who come from those places.  The Newman Rocky is a much better role model... a reflection of the neighborhood and poor working class family he comes from.

I this we see this "revisionist, fake, 2D baby food, cannabalized mush film making all the time.  We just often dont realize it until we see the original material they were based off of.

We're seeing it all the time with remakes like Robocop.  Judge Dredd 2012(?) was actually a good change of pace because it seems to get closer to the src instead of further from it.

The Watchmen film by Snyder failed to really capture the mood of the city in which these heros lived.  There wasn't an honest reflection of what it was that was wrong with the world.  In the comics you got the gist that it was less the people who jsut lived their lives, and more the politicians, the talking heads on tv, the corporate elite... and that all of them were manipulating the fears of the people.  The Watchman were wrong to try and make this about changing public opinion... public opion isn't shaped by the public in the first place!


Anyways, getting back to the tale of the two Rocky's, i think that we are seeing these propopganda (ratings don't matter) films that are just about shaping opinion and masqerading as art.  In Newman's Rocky, you see a system that is very forgiving of a flawed human being.  It paints these human beings as victums of their own condition but still must be made to mature so they can take responsibility for themselves.  You cant just write them off and then go off feeling all superior that it has anything to do with genetics or anything else.  Today, Rocky would have been sentenced for a great deal longer than the 3 he did of a 6 year sentence and the 1 he did for going AWOL.

Thta said,even Stallone's remake is a better champion of the poor than most modern films are.  We just dont see many films about poor people who make it anymore.  It seems almost too far fetched.


I) Can we make a story about this process of "Ratings Don't Matter" and how film/media/tv is all about shaping opinion?
II) Can we make a story about a forgiving world like "lars and the real girl" that is like earth but not earth because the people in it are too good.
	A story to shame American?  A story to show how the films we watch are not giving us real people anymore.  How are values are now completely superficial.  How we loath each other and ourselves.  How we know that deep down we are all slaves to the one ring of capitalism, and are lacking conviction of any kind, and are frauds and not really "good" moral people... we know too much evil but just stay silent and we resent those who remind us how much we lie to ourselves every day just to make it through it all.
	
III) A story about people making a film based on the life of a real hero in Canon Saga and how that film is being remade to be a lies... how modern film makers now no longer care about "truth."  They are just PR firms, message pushers, manipulators of the most dishonest kind.  Artistic license is ok if you still have integrity to the original material... but when you start to tell a message that doesnt exist or start to exclude other messages thereby inflating one message over another, that distorts the overall material and is can no longer be deemed as having integrity to the source.   



In "Flight" Denzel Washington plays a closer to "real" flawed character, but there's little redemption for him.  He is shamed, is imprisoned and we're shown that this is not a hero.  Regular guys aren't allowed to be heros anymore.  People who go through trials of temptation are not to be elevated to hero status for long... they must be torn down.

