feb.27.2014

http://www.gamasutra.com/view/news/211792/Mario_microtransactions_One_investor_puts_pressure_on_Nintendo.php

	
RE: "In theory, all investors should have the same goal for the company they own..."
--
I don't even think you can say "ideally" let alone "in theory." "Ideally" for some means the elimination of publicly traded corporations precisely because there is no "ideally" that solves all of the problems associated with them that leaves the system intact. And the more one considers the implications of that... the more one starts to view the inherent nature of the stock market as something negative. But I digress.

Different folks invest for different reasons which is sometimes reflected in the make up of their portfolio but not always. Some people will not invest in financial corporations or those that manufacture alcohol or tobacco. Some people will not invest in companies that have more workers overseas than domestically. Others have simpler goals unencumbered by any sense of morality, patriotism, responsibility or ethics... just make money and make money fast and to heck with the long term consequences. The latter views the former as willfully ignorant, closeted participators who need to maintain the illusion of their own untainted morality.

But you can't explain to the latter the advantages of cultivating the long term health of a company. He does not care about such things. He'll leave that burden to others.

I don't believe every idiot needs to be reasoned with. If an investor hasn't taken the time to learn to speak the language of the art/craft/service that is the business of the company he's invested in, he shouldn't be trying to give them advice on how to run it. And it's not the responsibility of anyone at Nintendo or elsewhere to explain to him the folly of his suggestions. People like that deserve to be laughed out of the room because he insults them with his arrogance.

But assuming Mr. Fischer is NOT an idiot, there are other motivations for giving the type of strikingly bad advice he's been giving. For instance, maybe he wants to help sow discord within Nintendo as a means to some unknown end. Who knows. Whatever the case I find it hard to believe that Mr. Fischer has Nintendo's interests at heart. 