oct.31.2022

mental illness in minority groups living in the West is rampant.

been thinking about Kanye West and his public statements that have generated huge backlash, i think he's mostly just ignorant.  Like in the Matrix when Morpheus tells Neo he knows something is wrong with the world but doesn't know what it is or can't explain it, but its like a "splinter" in his mind.  This is exactly so for so many minorities.

consider growing up as a minority and not seeing people who look like you on TV, in movies, on the radio, in magazines, etc.

consider that you see misrepresentation in the criminal justice system.

It's no surprise then that minorities live in a fear they can't explain.

it's no surprise that they made into addicts and criminals.

"ghetto matrix" by Thievery Corporation

"cultural ghetto" which is the general lack of respect for minority cultures by the mainstream as well as the politics and sociology by mainstream to keep minority cultures in the ghetto.

This is the essence of "MAGA" philosophy.  It's where attitudes like "shut up and play/perform" come from... a lack of respect for minorities and their success and professions (athletes, musicisans, actors, etc), .  A white construction worker can comment on politics and such, but Mahammud Ali and Colin Kaepernick needs to shut up and play and not have an opinion of their own.  They never let minorities forget who they "work for" and that their success is predicated on their benevolance.  Keep "shucking and jiving."  It's why one of the fundamental functions of all institutions is to be inclusive and promote positive cultural nostalgia, including schools at every level.  Without this promotion of inclusivity, some groups become mentally marginalized and unbound from the majority culture... they never grow roots and a sense of inclusion and belonging.

"A Soldier's Story" examines this as well and examines the almost self loathing side of the Black experience where some blacks side with the majority culture as a manfestation of the inferiority complex of the minority culture.  

This idea of seperate cultures is problematic as well.  The goal should be to expand the majority culture to be inclusive.  There are already sub-cultures and although you can work to change them, the ultimate goal is to make the majority culture more inclusve rather than to expand the sub-cultures which are often degenerate in some way.  Nobody should want to expand those types of sub-cultures at least not without major modifications.

In a way, the culture of the Elites is a sub-culture but one that the majority culture thinks it can aspire to become.  The "American Dream."  

What role does nostalgia play in maintaining various cultures?  Well, i think the mainstream media does not promote positive historical sub-culture works of art and exrpession in the same way it promotes the nostalgia of majority cultural art (eg. Everyone knows of Roman|Greek hisotyr and mythology or Butch Cassidey and the Sundance Kid even though it's old.  It's why Duke Ellington is virtually unknown in today's black culture.  Supression of black history is huge whether it's intentional or not.  On the other hand, historical white culture is constantly being repackaged and sold... consider shows like "Yellowstone" and westerns in general.  They are always being remade so the nostaglia and romanticism perpetuates across generations.  Consider why do people still wear cowboy hats and not derbies?  Heck, even Christian and Jewish stories are always being repackaged and sold for every generation.

Maybe there is an allegorical story I could write about a crusader who is trying to destroy negative cultural nostalgia in the way "El Topo" tells a story about contemporary Judao-Christian influences and co-option.

Are the Borg in Star Trek a way of protesting inclusivity?  The Borg's entire goal was to make a super-culture where the distinctiveness of all cultures would be made incorporated into a single culture.  The Borg "packaging" of this idea is made to be very scary.  Without that packaging, would the Borg's philosophy of inclusion be more appealing?  Take away some aspects of the Borg such as the death of the individual and zombie-fication and lack of agency of the self along with their ghoulish and abominable techno-physical appearance, what do you have?  In actuality, Starfleet and the Borg seem like two sides of the same coin.  Starfleet does represent inclusivity.

Consider non-white nations like Japan that have adopted so many western cultural artifacts such as Democracy, freedom and liberalism, and fashion and music... if they still teach about their history and ancient beliefs and produce art and works of expression showing that, then they don't lose their distinct identity by adopting western artifacts.

Native American traditions being taught and passed down is similar... compared to the Churches and government's attempt to erradicate their identity historically.

Celebration of diversity and inclusivity is a strength?

Is "cultural appropriation" a thing or just a fear response revolving around identity politics?  Did Japan's appropriation of western culture destroy it's identity?  Is there anything inherently wrong about adopting aspects of another culture into one's own?  Are the Amish community silly for denouncing technology?  What's wrong with eating foreign foods? Nothing.

Capitalism itself is a rooted in the cultural identity of people in the USA.  Or maybe, it just wrapped itself into the American cultural notion of "freedom" for self preservation. 

What is wrong with trade?  Trade of physical commodities like food and spices is the physical version of cultural expression and ideas.  Trade encrichens and provides growth.

Furthermore, it pre-supposes that any piece of culture is "owned" by one group.  The truth is, they belong to everyone on the planet.  Ideas once put out there, are free (or should be)