may.28.2018

heard that Ayn Rand wrote a book titled the Fountainhead where an architect tries to maintain his individualism and integrity in a conformist society.

i think perhaps there are some worthwhile notions in Ayn Rand's works, but as an overall philosophy that promotes Capitalism as the bastion of individualism and integrity, it is completely bankrupt.  Capitalism leads to dominance by the so-called 1% who then enforce conformity within whatever power structures they control (corporations, so-called higher learning, political institutions, etc).  It merely displaces governments like Democracy's norms (which at least protects basic individual freedoms) for it's own controls where they can stifle freedom of speech and assembly, etc.

the vast majority of jobs created under capitalism do not promote individualism and integrity... they are highly conservative and care only about efficiency and conformity.  

The fact that some visionaries and pioneers can make a lot of money within the system can be viewed as a problem as the majority of the folks who help build the corporation get relatively little compensation.  

I think key is the issue of integrity.  Integrity is very often lossed under capitalism because workers don't want to lose their jobs... so they "do evil" and aid and abet evil work that is done by the corporation (evil work can be thought of as anything that goes against the values of any particular individual) and in doing so, they make hypocrites of the people and they contort and twist their values.  

your values are no longer important.  the corporations values trump all.

some level of conformity is good.  how much?  conformity to certain laws for example, but there are some laws that should not be conformed to... Jim Crow and Segregation and Slavery for instance.

but because all people are prejudiced, visual conformity provides comfort.  If you dress like a gangsta rapper, white people will be more afraid or suspicious of you.


