July.28.2022

on linux distros diversity 

i used to think that having so many competing distros, desktops, and libraries was a bad thing, but now i think of it as just one of few examples of the competitive advantages of open source software.

if we had this kind of competition in other markets, then the world would be a better place.

anticompetitive industries seek to have winners and losers.  zero-sum game mentality and ideology.

but true competitive markets result in many successful and prosperous comopanies co-existing with greed being held in check.

having been raised in the anticompetitive west, its easy to get caught up in thinking of winners and losers.  This is brainwashed thinking.

This type of thinking results in fanboi creation and thinking that its Playstation vs Xbox and such.  

In terms of the games industry, i think there is also an attempt at having winners and losers, but its resisted by the fact that there is so much diversity.

For instance, Doom vs Duke Nukem was a thing but now there are so many FPS games, and they coexist.

there's still attempts by some publishers, to be the best of breed, but these are never sustainable because of the diversity of the industry.
This thinking of being the "best" is what prompts publishers to gobble up competition in the never ending and flawed quest for domination.

Its why open hardware is so important as well.  The PC industry took off because there was so much hardware available compared to proprietary hardware by Cray, Sun Microsystems and others.

The music industry is diverse, but the labels are gatekeepers to massive success.  Groups like Thievery Corporation get little to no airtime.

Books are diverse too.

Mainstream news is not diverse and suffers tremendously at the cost of our democracy and political discourse.

In politics, diversity is attacked as anti-white, anti-straight, anti-christian, etc, and used to divide people and protect the elite power structure.

Celebration of diversity raises all boats.  Fascism cripples innovation, intellectual thought, science, progress, etc.

If you look at totalitarian and fascit thinking, just look at the poverty in the Middle East.  The only thing they have to offer the world is oil.

the internet itself is diverse.  Companies and Governments still try to control  it, but at it's heart, the internet's full potential is realized through its diversity.

Awards... everything from sports MVPs, Oscars to Nobel Prize to America's Got Talent, all try to pick winners and losers.  This is flawed.  It's not that we shouldn't acknowledge high achievement, it's that we have to acknowledge that most of these "winners" are products of the zero-sum game view of the world and neglect that luck, cirumstances, opportunity, support, and good fortune all have something to do with it and not just "natural ability" or "talent."