march.22.2013

what is evidently clear from listening to conversations between Dawkins and Lawrence Krauss is that science is not providing what religion provides which is a set of tools for living.  science doesn't give that.  it says "here's the truth!"  but that truth does not help us understand how to live and why.

the atheists and agnostics need to supply people with tools for living a productive life, a happy life, a hopeful life, a moral life, etc.

it is not enough for any man or woman to have science without some life philosophy.  It's not enough for poor people, dumb people or smart people and rich people.  Because this philosophy is what gives us strength and principles and convictions.  i'm not talking about rigid dogma.  it's not that people need to be told how to live, it's that, people need a life philosophy that will help them avoid addictions (because science and the truth we know is not enough!), to live healthy, to live in harmony, to live with principles and virtue, to avoid wasting their lives watching tv or shopping, to avoid xenophobia and bigot politicians.  The truth of science is not enough.  Maybe it is that lay people do not fully grasp the ramifications of the truth of science as you do... but its because nobody has explained it to them.

on the problem with the Church, what is extraordinary is how their bishops and higher ups are appologists for the rather attrocious history of the church.  As an entity, the Church has acted frnakly, evily. As an entity, if it were a person it'd be given a life sentence or a death sentence.  As an institution it refuses to take the high road and to give itself a chance to be reborn.  instead its ranks are filled wit apologists who are to afraid of the truth and who don't respect people.  

inherently, how can you respect people when you're dealing in so many lies.

i think this is why eastern philosophies are superior to abrahamic religions.  


practice (meditation, yoga, martial arts, etc) is the truth that nobody can flip a switch and take control of their lives to avoid abusing their minds and bodies (eating bad, drinking, smoking, drugs, not excercising, etc).  Control is built through practice.  And they believe that ceremony is bad because it transforms a practical practice into an emotional display that robs people of practice that is personally beneficial to th emind and body, and replaces it with a passive display to be consumed.

and it is through practice that we construct and wire our minds to be resilient and discplined and rational and reasonable and to avoid acting irrationally.  practice constructs our strength.  it is not a matter of willpower.  willpower comes from conditioning.

and religion and religous ceremony robs people of that by not making that connection.  it ops instead for the easy junk food style fixes of just a prayer here and there.  religion does not teach people about how to strength their own minds through practice.  it tells people to just conform and follow.

