
Dec.24.2011

http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6JIsKRbBax0&list=FLlSmQyKBkA5NoA4NW3KUGVA

Dr Yosef Ben-Jochannan Flaws of Christianity question and answer 1/6


--

He said something very interesting which i'd never thought about before.... he said that he's not doing this for black people, he's doing it, for himself.  But in order to do it for himself, he has to do it for all black people and that we do for each other only because we want to do for ourselves.

This is the fundamental nature of altruism.  

From an economic model of human behavior, this aspect must not be ignored.  The only thing you can know for sure about someone is that they are selfish.  You can't know however if their selfishness is rationale.  Some people may do what's against their own interest because they are ignorant or mislead and unable to come to what you view as the rational decision he should make.

--

So as a progressive, as someone who's typically been against this idea of "greed is good" and "selfishness" and the backlash this has placed AGAINST being selfish, i think what we need to understand is that selfishness is just fine, but we have to be rational.  

If you want well for your children, your selfish because you derive pleasure from knowing your children and grandchildren are a product of you.  You want to preserve the planet selfishly.  You do not want others to destroy it because you need them to be with you, if you're to achieve what YOU personally desire.

--

I think that to not know this is a fundamnetal flaw.  We are all selfish and we should look at each other as selfish people and that to the extent you give to any relationship it's because of what you get from it.

If your are warm and passionate to your wife because she will in turn be warm and passionate to you and together you appreciate how that type of relationship makes you feel, it is a mutually beneficial ongoing series of exchanges.  Transactions.  (do we need to be careful of always trying to model human behavior in terms of economics?  is this ultimately a flaw?  Why economics and why not more neutral language like "exchanges" instead of "transactions".  Economics can be thought of as a formalization of terminology for describing a range of related ideas and concepts but... the problem with all formalization is the dividing up of these concepts.  Economics for instance we know really cant be seperated from Psychology.)

If your child is destroying your life, cut them loose.  If they give you pleasure, reward them.  

The first man threw the breach goes through because he knows somebody has to or nothing will get done.  Cooperation is still selfish.  If there was nothing in it for him at all... no vested interest whatsoever, then he's a fool for being there.  

But what about PETA?  Where would the selfishness come into play for wanting to protect animals?  

Hatred and murder.  i think that if you murder someone because it's the only way you can stop them from taking from you or harming you, then it's justified.  But, there is a hierarchy of self interest.  If by violating a law, you are acting irrationally because you are law abiding for selfish reasons, then when could murder be acceptable?


Second to second, moment to moment, we are acting selfishly.  However we are not always acting rationally.  We are emotional, we have hormones, we have lots of drives that aren't based on reason. This lack of complete rationality is our fundamental flaw, but may also be why we are creative and so intelligent. 
So collectively because society is a construct to protect ourselves against competing societies, we 



-- Artificial Intelligence based on selfishness
  - Could this produce smarter AI if we tried to make selfish decision making as prime act?  But how is that different than anything else?  Well, a selfish monster wont stick around to fight something that overpowers it.  It will try to flee if it realizes it cant win and there is an escape window.