sept.28.2022


freedom - what is it? anarchy?  why don't they teach basic concepts in school?  what country is the most free?

democracy and all societies/civilizations have laws and norms and place restrictions on freedoms, for the benefit of society.

religions attempted to provide a structure as well so that man's darkest impulses were curbed and so society could flourish, but it seems primitive compared to Republics.

capitalism seems to grant more freedom to the wealthiest.

i think one of the reasons people think the "Metaverse" will be successful is because in the Metaverse, there will be increased opportunities for freedom.  But i think it will just demarcate around economic success just as it does around the world.

The holodeck in startrek yields alot of simulated freedom including the freedom to kill without consequence.  Total Recall examined this too. Table top role playing games also allow for this.

absolute freedom for every individual is impossible.  some people will always attempt to impose their will on others.

if absolute freedom is just anarchy, then it's going to make technological progress very difficult because the world will be comprised of factions/warlords/tribes.

So called sociopaths and psychopaths often act on their worst impulses and do not recognize societal laws and norms.

There are even organized sociopaths and psychopaths that do not play by the rules of the majority.

Only God is absolutely free, but perhaps even He is bound to the Universe.

The notion of "inheritance" gives decendants of wealthy people a giant leap forward in terms of freedom.  It's not really fair.  It's not too different than being born of nobelity.  Similar things can be said of race, religion, orientation, physical and mental disabilities, etc.  Then there's the issue of parenting... some children are born disadvantaged because their parents suck and their schools, teachers, role models, peers suck too.  So much for "all men are created equal"

science fiction and games should tackle this subject more explicitly.  People are simply not told or challenged on why in the USA and the west, things are the way they are.  



