https://gamedev.net/forums/topic/720502-games-character-ai-sucks-consider-this-an-intervention-fishbowl-challenge-2026/
TITLE OF POST:  Games' Character AI Sucks.  Consider this an Intervention -> FISHBOWL CHALLENGE 2026!
(This is a FAKE ANNOUNCEMENT, but real game design questions and ideas are wrapped inside.
If anyone wants to make the FISHBOWL CHALLENGE A REALITY, that would be awesome!)

THESIS:
1) Games can be made much more interesting if NPCs (Non-Player Characters) behaved in more "interesting" ways.

2) Games with more interesting NPCs will DRAMATICALLY INCREASE the global audience of interactive digital entertainment. I believe ABYSMAL character AI is a big part of why video games/interactive digital entertainment are stuck in Chris Hecker's "cultural ghetto along with toys and comic books."

https://www.gamedeveloper.com/game-platforms/igda-forum-asking-why-will-keep-games-out-of-the-ghetto-says-hecker

https://www.pcgamer.com/spyparty-dev-on-the-cultural-ghetto-of-gaming-we-have-to-make-games-about-different-stuff/

3) Interesting" can be measured or tested by determining
a) how long the average USER(S) will [want to] watch or observe a single NPC's BEHAVIOR in a simulation, without interacting directly with that NPC in any way AND
b) where that NPC is restricted to a SINGLE SCENE or ENVIORNMENT [the EXHIBIT] that is no greater than 10x10 meters or 100 square meters (~1076 square feet for the Yanks).

MISSION:
NPC Behaviors in modern games are so EMBARASSINGLY and ATTROCIOUSLY bad, that I feel the Games Industry needs an INTERVENTION. It simply does not seem to care much about advancing the quality of NPCs within their simulations. Have we really come that much farther than the days of "Creatures", "Daikatana", the dog in "Fable", nVidia's 2002 "Dawn" demo and "The Sims?" AI capabilities in games seem like they are always the first to get cut/postponed. The industry seems to CONSTANTLY shut down/scale back the implementation of enhanced AI for NPCs in upcoming games due to "resource and time constraints."

We know that people will watch

"Jelly Fish Cams" https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eQ_foBERmzA
"Fish Cams" https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DHUnz4dyb54
"Shark Cams" https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tEtg5Kg3voQ
"Puppy Cams" https://www.nps.gov/dena/learn/photosmultimedia/webcams-pups.htm and
"Bird Next Cams" https://www.allaboutbirds.org/cams/all-cams/

24 hours a day, but they WILL NOT sit around and watch the ridiculously low-quality human-imitations that are Non-Player Characters in modern video games as they shift side-to-side in their DREADED/TIRED/LAZY/WTF ITS 2026 ISN IT?/LAME/ARMS & LEGS AKIMBO 'IDLE' ANIMATION.

Submitters should endeavor to create a life-like(TM) NPC that exists in the proposed enclosure/habitat/terrarium/exhibit.

What Needs To Be Simulated? That's for YOU to decide! But for priming the grey-matter, let's look at what behaviors one could attempt to simulate.
Autotomic(and similar) functions (e.g.. breathing, eye-blinking, hiccups, sneezing, yawning)

Appropriate responses to stimuli (outside noises, arrival of newspaper, mail or parcel or food delivery, thunder, rain, lawn mower, YOU NAME IT!)


Emotional Range - emotions of various kinds performed in appropriate situations (receiving an unexpected letter of invitation to a FUNERAL of a close friend)

Dialogue (answering a ringing phone and engaging in interesting conversations with daughter, salesman, robo-callers, wrong number, etc.)

Navigation taken to new heights (dealing with a stubbed toe, walking around during a sudden power outage, inadvertent fall and determining the severity of any injury responding appropriately

Daily Routine - ability to have a routine but still adjust to random events (can your EXHIBIT implementation be so amazing that people would watch it for 7 days straight?)

COMBINING all of the above.

[PLEASE HELP REFINE THIS LIST]

Will a typical USER be inclined to watch for 5 seconds? 30 minutes? 24 hours? 1 week?!

Anyone willing to coin a term for this (or the various thresholds - think the chatbot 'Turing Test' or robot 'Uncanny Valley?')

Mission I. Determine the "what's" about watching people, dogs & cats, birds, etc., that keeps people's attentions.
II. Determine which NPC behaviors or combinations of NPC behaviors are the most interesting so that work can be better prioritized.
III. Determine the "threshold" values for various NPC qualities, by which an NPC becomes "interesting."
IV. Determine the amount of run-time memory, disk storage and processing power is needed to reach the various thresholds.
a) how is this impacted over time by NPCs that can "memorize" and "learn" on-the-fly?
i - how important is on-the-fly learning and knowledge accumulation for creating an engaging EXHIBIT?

V. The submissions showcasing interesting NPC behaviors will serve as PATHFINDER technologies for the Interactive Digital Entertainment Creators community and will serve to re-ignite the imaginations of creators in the space.

EXHIBITION-A (aka "Scene 1")
"Up" film house interior
This FISHBOWL CHALLENGE can be as deep/involved/detailed/difficult as one dares to make it. This is the whole point!

This challenge should be of a TECHNICAL nature and not of an artistic or aesthetic one. We are NOT trying to dazzle the USER with visuals, we are trying to dazzle them with NPC BEHAVIOR. With this in mind, the Exhibits should all be very similar so that the various submissions can be evaluated\compared fairly.

With this in mind, for "Exhibit A" I propose a house on the order of 10x10 meters similar to the one depicted in the Pixar film "Up" that is inhabited by a single NPC character of your choice such as one like the old man in that film.

Some people might think this EXHIBIT and CHALLENGE is too difficult, but I think it SHOULD be.

EVALUATING THE SUBMISSIONS
What should we evaluate other than the average length of time that an end user will find the NPC interesting? Here are some thoughts:

Hardware Performance

Memory Use

CPU / GPU Performance

Software Quality

Size of code / libraries

Simplicity/Elegance of the code

Simplicity/Elegance of the API

Extensibility of the code and the NPC Behaviors

Scalability

Fidelity of Simulation

Real-time decision-making and responses with NO scripted behaviors.

Believability (a chat-bot like test) [Un]Predictability of the NPC (moving away from the dreaded ARCHETYPES (2D cardboard caricatures) because we can't create fully fledged characters very easily/cheaply)

NPC World knowledge

NPC History of Self and Culture

NPC Learning (Memorizing new information and ways of achieving goals)

Simultaneous Behaviors that an NPC can run

Existence of Emergent Behaviors

What would we expect here re: emergent behaviors? I believe that emergent behaviors are more likely to arise from simple/elegant systems (or systems with simple \ elegant rules) that can be combined in various ways to create more complex behaviors.

3D Engine & Tools
Any 3D Engine and Tools you like so long as the end product can run on Windows, Linux or Mac and without the end user having to pay for or purchase any licenses, subscriptions or services to run the resulting software.

This is all for now. I hope anyone with good ideas can help refine this document and actually work to get (maybe GameDev.Net itself) someone to organize and run with this CHALLENGE. All it would really need is a known place for people to submit their EXHIBITS or links to them, for all of the world to see.

Happy Coding!
-Michael Preston Joseph

p.s. some links to sample scenes for EXHIBIT - A
https://sketchfab.com/3d-models/rustic-mediterranean-interior-c285d4c17b0545269d89ffc82dac3e40
https://sketchfab.com/3d-models/modular-vintage-living-room-game-ready-pbr-d83c3f837bae4c9aa52fafc476500386
https://sketchfab.com/3d-models/loft-13-living-room-interior-cfc0e5806d14415d9e9adaa08a59ddcf
https://sketchfab.com/3d-models/loft-japanese-11-free-interior-8a09c63a74f5446681bbdfcb16ae7dd1
https://sketchfab.com/3d-models/the-upper-vestibule-e74928dc62fe457892e52dd97b6aa6e0
https://sketchfab.com/3d-models/cartoon-interior-5560ed48c1594c66bd8bd725c3920174
https://free3d.com/3d-model/modular-house-interior-pack-cartoon-assets-for-game-6425.html?dd_referrer=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.google.com%2F
https://syntystore.com/products/simple-house-interiors-cartoon-assets?srsltid=AU7gw4WwwlWygK07DsvKLTKLy9Q892QVEW9rLoMtRjrPrWjztOr_OsU8

Future Fishbowl Challenge Competitions might expand to more than 1 character... e.g.: a bar/pub
https://sketchfab.com/3d-models/irish-pub-pbr-diorama-65b12c6942ce49e895778928da47550f





Hypnotr0n wrote:

III. Determine the "threshold" values for various NPC qualities, by which an NPC becomes "interesting."

Ha, so you suggest to find good tweaking variables to make NPCs more interesting, but you do not yet have a definition of what 'interesting' actually means, since that's the very first question you actually raise. : )

Tbh, i think your post is overall too confusing. There is a lot of critique on state of the art but little proposal of improvement. Warping the discussion into some kind imaginary game jam also does not help us to answer that primary question, i think.

Hypnotr0n wrote:

Games can be made much more interesting if NPCs (Non-Player Characters) behaved in more "interesting" ways.


Show more
What would be some example of more interesting NPC behavior?

Hypnotr0n wrote:

3) Interesting" can be measured or tested by determining a) how long the average USER(S) will [want to] watch or observe a single NPC's BEHAVIOR in a simulation, without interacting directly with that NPC in any way AND b) where that NPC is restricted to a SINGLE SCENE or ENVIORNMENT [the EXHIBIT] that is no greater than 10x10 meters or 100 square meters (~1076 square feet for the Yanks).


Show more
Neither a nor b are helpful clues on the question. A is just basically 'Oh, my game became a success, so i was right about everything', and B is a baseless assumption about scale.

Hypnotr0n wrote:

NPC Behaviors in modern games are so EMBARASSINGLY and ATTROCIOUSLY bad, that I feel the Games Industry needs an INTERVENTION.


Show more
Baseless critiquue, without even providing an example or argument.

I think we should work on that directly, not so much on engine choices or min specs of the imaginary game jam.
And you should lead the way, since you've brought up the topic.

Today at 10:26 AM

Like

Helpful

Thanks
|

Quote

Link

Report
|

Mark Answer
Hypnotr0n
Hypnotr0n
Author
66

JoeJ wrote:

>Ha, so you suggest to find good tweaking variables to make NPCs more interesting, but you do not yet have a definition of what 'interesting' actually means, since that's the very first question you actually raise. : )

>Tbh, i think your post is overall too confusing. There is a lot of critique on state of the art but little proposal of improvement. Warping the discussion int...



Sid Meier famously once said, “A game is a series of interesting choices."
I would have thought this quote would have immediately come to your mind when I used the word "interesting." Interesting is SUBJECTIVE of course. Some people might watch Joe's-Fish-Aquarium-Cam for 2 hours, some for 20 minutes, some for 2 seconds. And I'm asking all of us this question... let's see if we can even easily determine, what NPC Behaviors\Combinations of Behaviors, are the most important ones to focus on and really do justice to, so that we can bring NPCs "to life"... in one fell swoop, or little by little if need be (which way this goes could depend heavily on the tech used)

And I'm hardly talking about finding some good "tweaking variables." I'm talking about bringing NPCs to life. I'm suggesting that bringing NPCs to life will dramatically increase the audience size. I'm suggesting that logging into a world and merely BEING in it, without playing it, MUST IMMEDIATELY BE DEEMED INTERESTING even WITHOUT ANY DIRECT USER INTERACTION. That test or measurement REALLY IS valid in my opinion.

Unfortunately, right now NPC Behavior designs\implementations are riding in the unpressurized baggage compartment of a rickety old plane. Games AI needs to be moved into the first-class section aboard an A330! My gosh, do I really need to delve further into this?

JoeJ wrote:

>Neither a nor b are helpful clues on the question. A is just basically 'Oh, my game became a success, so i was right about everything', and B is a baseless assumption about scale.


JoeJ, of course they are helpful. I've set the parameters of this 'challenge' to say "The simulation must be 'interesting' with NO DIRECT INTERACTION by the USER to the NPC in the EXHIBIT.
I preceded this by asking YOU, "What is it about watching a dog cam or an aquarium cam, or birds nest cam that is INTERESTING and can keep people tuned in for hours at a time?" because I think there's something we can glean from those sorts of examples. Don't agree?

Let's see what WE can come up with. NPC Behaviors are total crap right now across the board. Who are we kidding? Games are a joke to many non-gamers because, NPC Behaviors are a massive source of COGNITIVE DISSONANCE because even though some may visually appear remarkably photo-REAL, they act like completely DUMB, OBLIVIOUS and BRAINDEAD scarecrows and cannot do things that some random non-gamer, who is watching a "Let's Play" for the first time for a game that interests them, would assume an NPC they see on screen could do, but actually cannot.

"I could while away the hours
Conferrin' with the flowers,
Consulting with the rain;
And my head I'd be a scratchin'
While my thoughts are busy hatchin'
If I only had a brain."

- The Scarecrow from the Wizard of Oz

>Tbh, i think your post is overall too confusing. There is a lot of critique on state of the art but little proposal of improvement. Warping the discussion into some kind imaginary game jam also does not help us to answer >that primary >>question, i think.

For proposed improvement, I wrote a list of behaviors that one could attempt to simulate but you just ignored that list apparently. I don't think of this as an imaginary game jam... I think of it as an on-going call-to-arms, like the DEMO SCENE, to get creatives and developers out there, to start "bringing NPCs to life" and let's see what kinds of things people can come up with to make a simple EXHIBIT, with ONE NPC, that can respond to external stimuli, and otherwise is confined to that EXHIBIT (I use the word exhibit intentionally to evoke imagery of a ZOO creature being viewed constantly for the amusement of an audience... a miniature Truman Show.

JoeJ wrote:

>Baseless critique, without even providing an example or argument.

Pointing out the obvious deficiencies in how the Games Industry at large treats NPCs behaviors is not what I would consider a "baseless" critique.

You are not a n00b JoeJ, but I find that I'm having to converse with you as if you were one. So i'll provide you with a most obvious example of industry wide stagnation in NPC Behaviors.

JoeJ: "Hey Mr. Amazing 3D Animator! Tell me something. Why does your new fancy guard's 'idle' animation use this super cliche, and boring as all heck in 2026, 'huffing and puffing' animation combined perhaps with an akimbo hip 'weight-'shifting' animation? And why are they so exaggerated?"

Mr. Amazing 3D Animator: "I would take offence to that but... umm... it's totally true. I mean yes, our guards also have a 'turn-head-left-and-right-from-time-to-time' animation too but. Anway, do you seriously not know the answer to this question? I thought you were an experienc... umm... nevermind. OK. So like... the team decided once again, that for this project, guards and NPCs in general, will not respond to general, external stimuli such as sound caused by other NPCs, or cats, rats, crickets, the wind, or thunder... or noticing the visual movement of other NPCs or cats and rats and crickets or things blown by the wind, or smells caused by other NPCs, or cats and rats and crickets or blown in from across town by the wind, or noticing the appearance, movement or change in shadows caused by NPCs, or cats and rats and crickets or things being blown around by the wind.... or noticing and responding to sudden changes in temperature caused by..."

JoeJ: "OK i get it... changes in temperature caused by Freeze-Ray wielding cats and rats and crickets and Wind Monsters. Thanks for indulging me. Of course I knew all this already I just wanted to hear what you would say... and of course I know you exaggerate the 'idle' animations to cover up the fact that there's literally NOTHING ELSE for these 'guard' characters to do while they are waiting around for the player to show up so they can fulfill their only real purpose which is to be 'player-fired bullet magnets.'"

Mr. Amazing 3D Animator: Indeed. You know my pain.

JoeJ wrote:

>I think we should work on that directly, not so much on engine choices or min specs of the imaginary game jam.
>And you should lead the way, since you've brought up the topic.

JoeJ, there's hopefully enough 'we' in this Industry to do more than work on the things you want us to work on. (and I wasn't really talking about engine choices or min specs... performance and memory use are only mentioned so we can compare folks' implementations to see how useful they are eg. # simultaneous behaviors per sections... for instance, maybe somebody's tech focuses on running MANY behaviors (say 32 in parallel) per NPC and per second").

And I thought that thinking of this as a permanent running "game jam" would help set a "CALL TO ARMS" tone on this issue. The industry has FAILED to make progress in this area. Games AI really has barely progressed in the last 25 years. Call that a baseless critique if you will, but I stand by it.

Regards,

Michael Preston Joseph
