Do Bill O'Reilly's Exist in the Wild?


Somebody should put a team together and head out into the jungles of America and find out if people like him really exist... really.  I listen to the people who call into C_SPAN in the mornings and you will hear these Republicans who go around repeating the same lines you hear the Administration and the talking heads on Fox News and it makes me wonder, are these people for real?  

I've been assured that they are real.  In fact people tell me that I shouldnt be trying to deliver them... that they are a lost cause.  That seems so sad to me.  Given enough time I would like to believe that you could make some inroads with every person... even those who are watching and cursing after every other word that comes out of my mouth.  Do you just cut your losses and move on... not bothering trying to figure out how to at least figure out how to engage in a civil discussion of ideas with people or what?  

You know, I think you can so long as you dont start talking about politics.  Thats what people need to remember.  You're at baseball game and you're surrounded by republican, democrats, liberals, conservatives, independants, moderates, progressives... but there you all are enjoying a day out with the family, rooting for the home team.

But when it comes to politics people get really nasty.  Politics is like soccer in Europe practically.  In the US people dont go berserk and get into huge stadium wide brawls.  But with politics, well... I guess its a good thing the Dem/Rep national conventions arent held on the same day under the same roof.


On Clinton
------------
THe reason why Ralph Nader was even as popular as he was (which wasnt much) was because in some respects he was right.  Democrats would always circle the wagons and protect each other and its the same things the Republicans did.  Democrats all want Clinton to campaign for them and so nobody wants to ever bad mouth Clinton.  

But ill tell you something... as good a President as Bill Clinton was... i mean really, one of the best presidents this country has had in the last 50 years.  I lost alot of respect for him as a man when the truth became known that he cheat on his wife, lied to his family.. by committing adultry with a 20 year old intern.  And the Democrats lost the faith of many Americans by not really chastising him about that.  And this is how the process of division occurs.  If you want to unite this country you cant be a blind party loyalist.

Democrats have no balls.  This is what the country is saying.  Democrats are different on alot of issues but we're no different when it comes to politics as usual.  Many Americans know this... but not enough.  If you're a registered Democrat and you cant find a Democrat who will tell it like it is, then vote for an Independant, or vote for a Green Party member or vote for a Libertarian or maybe even a Republican if his name is Ron Paul.  I don't sound like a Democrat?  Why because I dont believe in advancing and defending the party when it doesnt deserve either?  No.  I'm a Democrat because of the issues I support.  

