I posted to huffington post comments on feb.3rd 2010 at 8:01pm  on this thread

http://www.huffingtonpost.com/arianna-huffington/only-empathy-can-save-us_b_447685.html

-------
Our problem isn't  lack of empathy just as lack of water isn't the reason for a house fire problem. 

We are witnessing a society of adults who are mentally still adolescents.  Too many adults in our society are in a state of arrested development emotionally, socially, intellectually, and spiritually. It's not the government's fault, it's our culture which has been shaped tremendously over the last 60 years by advertising and the media and entertainment industries which have in the name of "freedom" (to make what yields the most profit)  turned everything into entertainment.  And entertainment in this sense of the word is a perversion of it's former self.  Entertainment for adults in today's society is more akin to toys, childish games, clown and circus shows and antics.      

Consuming 24/7 "entertainment", it's no wonder that we cant growup.  We have generations young and old who never learned to grow up.  40 year old kids raising kids.  We dont learn and therefore can't teach the next generation to be moderate in behaviors, reasonable in discussions, nor wise in  decisions.

We are reduced to spoiled children at every level. We don't clean up after ourselves, we don't know how to play nice, we  forsake the future for the now, we yell and scream to get our way and if we don't, we pick up our marbles and leave.

We are a nation of developmentally stunted people.  We've gone from a nation of prudent ants to a nation of reckless and irresponsible grasshoppers.



--- second post same thread 10:00pm  in reply to Ken Allen's post 
Call me crazy but I don't think it's right to say a group of people who have different philosophical views (regardless of whether there's some biological basis for those differences) constitutes a "disorder."  Call it clinical abnormality if you like but their personalities and views fall into what can only be described as a statistically normal distribution for humans.  What if 15% of people were capable of empathy would they be the ones with a "disorder?"  When a pet chimpanzee bites off someone's face you get a ton of scientists lining up talking about how this is "normal" behavior for such a creature.  The same for people.  Our differences often compliment one another and it's possible these differences and their ebb and flow have helped societies and cultures evolve and survive.  

The reason the Republican message is so powerful is because on it's own, removed from the context of today's problems (income disparity, inequalities, *isms, corporate dominance, environmental degradation) it's a pretty good one!  So should we assume that ~50 million people who support that platform have disorders or are just stupid?   

So if the idea is that we need to get the sociopaths/aspergers/whatever out of government and all our problems will be solved, then I think it's the wrong idea.  I don't see millions of liberals and progressives quitting their jobs and traveling to Haiti or Bangladesh to take care of the needy.  Do they have insufficient empathy?  Don't we all by some measure? 