To whom it may concern,

My name is Michael Joseph and I am a self employed computer consultant living in the Puget Sound area.

I know you've all been running a great campaign and I truely hope you win, BUT if I may, I'd like to provide the following suggestions.

1) I think it's important for you to remind Democrats who insist on voting for Hillary Clinton that in a manner of speaking, they are betraying (clearly too harsh a word to use during a speech, debate or interview) the movement that has resulted in record turnouts at the primaries.  The "change movement" isn't _just_ about regime change in Washington, change is a decision to move away from politics as usual, harsh divisions between the parties (which Hillary still represents to many Republicans and Democrats alike) and a change to bring the US people from both parties back into political participation where we can feel that our voices count - that we won't be forgotten after we cast our votes.  I really think allot of Democrats have forgotten this and need to be reminded.  Your campaign _needs_ to remind them.  With all due respect, I think Senator Obama has been too generous with respect to Hillary Clinton on this fundamental point.  She has adeptly co-opted your message of "change" to include her as an agent of that change but she is fundamentally not representative of what the change movement is about and you should not let her easily co-opt your message and your movement.

2) Senator Obama has talked about "having good judgement" as being a critical quality for a candidate running for President to have and we all agree, but I think he could go a step further and suggest that "wisdom" is also important.    To me "wisdom" implies having the ability to appropriately factor in the long term consequences of any particular  choice/action/path into the overall decision making process.  Allot of exceptionally smart people in the Bush Administration plunged us into a war.  But the American people are tired of merely smart people, we want wisdom as well.  We want the kind of wisdom Senator Obama showed when he stood against the war before it ever became popular.  

3) Related to the good judgement argument is the question about experience your campaign has been constantly forced to address.  To allot of Democrats and Independants, "experience" in this context is code word for "status quo" and "politics as usual."  Hillary Clinton's kind of experience is not an advantage, it's a disadvantage.  Hillary Clinton cannot heal this nation because (whether she like's it or not) she is villified in the eyes of too many Republican Americans.  The Obama campaign must more clearly and publicly acknowledge that at the heart of the change movement is a desire to move away from the dynasties of the past whom have established so many political enemies as to make change unlikely.  I think these arguments can be made in a way that is not attacking or hostile, but matter of fact and speaking to the truth that allot of us know in our hearts.

4) Senator Obama's biggest weakness in the debates is differentiating himself from Senator Clinton and I think that emphasizing who the real agent of change is can solve that.  For example, Senator Obama and Senator Clinton were asked during the debate by Wolf Blitzer if either candidate would consider the other for Vice President.  Well, there's too much talk where I live that suggests people would be happy with either Hillary Clinton or Barack Obama.  How can this be?  It is because Hillary Clinton too, has become an agent of change.  Further, any talk of a "dream ticket" invariably assumes Barack Obama as the Vice President and people need to feel that voting for Senator Clinton will not result in any such ticket; that if we want a Barack Obama in the White House in any capacity, we must nominate him for President.  In my opinion, Senator Obama should have clearly stated that he is not running for Vice President, he will not seek to be Vice President AND further if nominated, would not invite Senator Clinton to be his running mate.  "Let me tell you why Wolf, the Democrats and Independants who have joined me in this change movement which I'm committed too, is in many ways hoping for a new Presidential Administration; one that is not tied to any family dynasty or the negative baggage (e.g. national division) that comes from those ties.  If we are to be sincere and true to our convictions about change, if we want to heal this country and bring it back together, we must do so by example.  I have no doubt Senator Clinton would make a very fine Vice President, however, I know that the American people want to move past the types of politics we've seen in the past and one way to show that is to listen to all of the voices out there calling for change."

I suspect there's some concern about sounding like a "radical" but I think the simply way to avoid that is to clearly spell out the change you're talking about (namely dynasties, politics as usual, division, etc)  Unfortunately in my view, Senator Obama has virtually been aiding and abedding Senator Clinton in her co-option of the movement.  It is not "attack politics" to state that Senator Clinton as qualified as she may be, is not the President this country needs right now.  This country does not need another 4 years of division that will ensue when a Clinton regime returns to power. I supported Bill Clinton but I know right now that change would have an empty ring to it if we reverted back to another Clinton Presidency.

5) I know that in the greater Seattle area that the overwhelming majority of voters who might vote for Hillary in the primary, would vote for Barack in the general if he becomes the nominee, but the vice versa is not true.  Allot of us in the change movement will not view Hillary's election as anything more than moving away from the Republican's disasterous polices - BUT WE WANT  MORE THAN THAT.  That is why I feel Senator Obama has a better chance at beating any Republican nominee in the general election; of course you already know this.

In my humble opinion, the Obama campaign needs to do a better job at REMINDING us what this change movement is all about; that we want more than regime change in Washington.  We can change our government.  We can change our future.  We can change our destiny.  But to do that, some of us have to change ourselves.  The latter is an interpretation of the "we can change" message that I think many of us don't hear.

Thank you for your time.  I was only able to donate a small amount today, but I will contribute more toward the end of the month and look forward to continuing to donate after Senator Obama moves forward in the general election.

Very best regards,
-Mike Joseph

-- sent on Feb.6,2008