
 -Hypnotron Oct.10.2021

The problem with conservatives is they are dogmant rather than pragmatic.  In other words, they are not really conservative (in the traditional and historic sense) at all.  They are no longer the party of Licoln. Today they are simply contrarians and obstructionists to Democratic ideas no matter what that idea is. This makes them fascist, racist and everything else.  Actually, to the extent they are pragmatic, its in their resolve to work to gain and keep power.  They have no integrity and integrity is the greatest of all human virtue. But surely their must be some ideals?  What if pragmatism says its ok to commit genoicde?  There must be certain ideals such as "the value of human life" to guide pragmatism?  Could Hitler be viewed as a pragmatist? I think that is the role of the Constitution and democracy and empathy and social awareness. The Constitution after all was created to define how the Republic should behave. The preamble of the Constitution says "We the People of the United States, in Order to form a more perfect Union, establish Justice, insure domestic Tranquility, provide for the common defence, promote the general Welfare, and secure the Blessings of Liberty to ourselves and our Posterity, do ordain and establish this Constitution for the United States of America."

Shakespear says "to thine own self be true" and i think that is the basis of integrity, however, who that "self" is, should be based on the ideals set forth in the preamble of the Constitution.  Indoctrination to those ideals is pro-society and good.  Anti-social thinking should be shunned.

Working to make the Union better and more just is a good philosophy.  Creating media that encourages anti-social behavior is therefore wrong.

It might be interesting to research the fall of the Roman Empire.  Did it fall because it lost it's ideals?  Relied on slavery and brutality to rule?  Instead of being a beacon of light, it was a harbinger of doom for the rest of the world? 

People came to America for prosperity and freedom of persecution for their beliefs.  But perhaps after WWII, America became so paranoid and xenophobic, that it started to lose its integrity to its own ideals and principles.  It created agencies that persecuted it's own citizens and that also enabled other countries to persecute their own citizens.

Xenophobia and paranoia is now front and center within the "conservative" movement.

Corporatism and Oligarchies also are anti-social and that has been there since the Industrial Revolution.  But "conservative" thinking sees capitalism as a virtue whereas progressives believe it should be titly regulated to protect society.  Industrial advances have improved society in some ways, advancing our understanding of the natural world, the universe, new medicines, freeing up people's free time to pursue their own interests, but it also is prone to enslaving people, spewing propaganda and misinformation and undermining pro-social ideals.  Unions and regulations became a "necessary evil".

Capitalsim becomes the "one ring" that rules all facets of American society.  It fosters ideation of "Empire."  Instead of cultural power, it relies on economic and military power. It perhaps shouldn't be banned, but alternatives should be taught.  If people want to start a co-op rather than a public held corporation, they should be taught of its virtues.

Hmm... its complicated.