     
by Hypnotron ~Augst/Sept 2007

Disbanding the army?  An intentional "mistake?"

- by disbanding the army, we guarantee that we have to be in Iraq long term if not for the sole purpose of protecting them from Iran.
- by disbanding the army, we guarantee that a massive coordinated counter attack to displace the occupying forces ever occurs.  


Democrats - The Iraqi war can't be won militarily.  This is just flat wrong.  The war is already over and we won.  The Democrats are caught up in the Republican's redefining of the War and they cant get out of it.  They cant criticize Bush for his "Mission Accomplished" remarks and then turn around and say "Technically he was right."  So, the Democrats are vicitms of their own spin.  

Republicans - If we "lose" this war we'll lose our credibility in the world. Bullshit.  We already lost that when it became known what a farce this war has been and that we lied to get into it.  The Democrats should argue that by admitting our mistakes and owning up to them, that we will start to rebuild our credibility.  Nobody doubts our military's capability.  If anything its shown that we can quickly win any war.  However, it's also shown that when our objectives are beyond military victory (regime change is a military objective but Democracy building is not.  Had we kept the government in tact and just demanded that Saddam and his sons and other key "bad guys" be turned over, then things would've been fine.  But when you disolve the government and its police forces and military then you put the military into those roles and its not what they are trained or designed to do. )  This is the fundamental fuckup that Rumsfeld and his crony's did..  that they thought they could install a democracy in that way.  Note that in Japan and Germany and such, we didn't disolve the existing power structures... we simply converted them.  But they remained in power.  It was our own actions that forced this insurgency to occur.  Because of our actions and fuckups, we made the liklihood of an insurrgency into a 100% likely event.  There could be no other outcome. 

Republicans - Play to patriotism and gullibility of most Americans that we need to win this war or "bad things" will happen (e.g blood bath, terrorists follow us home) 
         
Democrats - Leaving = losing.  The Democrats have failed to redefine "leaving" as something other than losing.  One way to do this is to keep emphasizing that we already won the war.  (but they dont want to say that for fear it will make Bush look good)  But what they should say frankly is that the war was won.  But now we cant "win" this police action.  We need to train the Iraqi security forces and redeploy out of hte hot areas.  These arent "combat" areas either.  This is civil unrest throught the country.  It's only a "combat area" because our troops are there and we define any work they do as "combat" thus when they fire in an area, it becomes a combat area.  But when police are in an area and fire, its not a combat area, its just an area with alot of crime and unrest.


Republicans - We can win by not losing.  As long as we dont leave, we can't lose so let's never leave!  Brilliant.  It's like holding on to a stock thats fell 30 points.  If you don't sell the stock, you wont realize the loss.

Republicans - This is a war.  (No.  It's not).


This is why the Democrats can't really win debates with the Republicans outright because they too are caught up in the Republicans defining of the situation.  That means that the Republicans have the initiative and they will keep that initiative and likely win. 

Democrats should remind people that we won the war but we lost the political side of things.  Just like Vietnam really.  People say we lost in Vietnam.  Poltiically yes we absolutely did. Militarily, we won virtually every major battle.  We won that war but the politicians failed the troops by putting them into an impossible situation.  If you frame things this way which I think reflects the reality, then our military saves face and the blame is put squarely on the people who deserve it... not the media, not the liberals and the antiwar folks, but the politicians and in particularly the President and his Adminisitration.  Frankly in Vietnam, we should've killed or captured any civilian who remained in the combat areas.  

Democrats and Republicans know that the surge cant work because the war is over.  We are talking about policing of gangs in Iraq right now.  But policing cannot be done without the concent of the citizenry and if you go around breaking down people's doors and shooting everyone inside then you're not being a good policeman and you will gain the citizen's contempt and lose their consent.  Right now "surge" is really synonymous with oppression because it is not "war."  It is not even guerrilla warfare because even in guerrilla warfare their are clear command structures.  And I sympathize with troops who do kill innocent people.  The military is trained to kill people and are trained to believe that if you're not wearing a U.S uniform or the uniform of an allied army then you are the opposition.  If you're an innocent then frankly you should've left the battlefield and by staying it's as much your fault as it is there.  But unfortunately, our troops are not on a battlefield anymore.  The war is over.  But they arent told this.  

As for how to stabilize Iraq?  Easy.  You let the Shiite's drop the hammer on the Sunnis and you let the Shiite's to gain clear control of the country.  I think the Kurds and the Shiite will get along just fine  so there wont be a problem there.  But the U.S dilemna is that Iran is predominantly Shiite as well and they fear that Iraq will ally with them but I dont think this will happen because I think the Iraqi's have a strong national pride, they have alot of oil resources (and the 4.2 million Iraqi refugees arent going to Iran... they are going to Jordan and Syria).  And our government knows this.  The real reason they dont want the Shiite in total control is because they feel that a strong central government with alot of support by the people will make it harder for us to maintain our control over the oil.  If the Sunnis (as a minority) have alot of power then we can deal with them to help prop them up and in return they will support our interests.  




The consultant to Petraus said on C-Span's Washington Journal show that
 - 
 - it will take 20 years because thats how long it takes in civil wars for a new generation of leadership who see the world differently to come to power
 - one caller talked about how all of these politicians in iraq are profitting tremendously from this conflict

