
Sept 27, 2005 - 4:05pm

dynamics of corruption


I sometimes get tired of reading about claims about Masonic (illuminati) conspiracies that are not backed up with references.  In other words, just bullshit pulled outta people's asses.  If its not direct heresay, then all too often the sources they site have also cited heresay.  

There ARE more simple but still just as evil reasons for alot of things that go wrong in our society.  In fact, corruption is so commonplace and so simple yet its totally misunderstood.  Most corruption (contrary to popular belief) I BELIEVE is to be of the smallish variety and doesnt even amount into a conspiracy per se.  In other words, you could have an organization with lots of different people all acting corruptly but not necessarily towards the same goals.  Some members may be working independantly with different members in the organization but since they are acting corruptly, they minimize the knowledge of the corruption between each other on a need to know basis.. NOT because of any grand scheme, but simply as a matter of logic and common sense.  Why tell Joe who is paying you off, that Jill is also paying you off?

From someone who is NOT involved in a similar corrupt "game" but who is close to it and those who do participate they may feel that the corruption is actually a conspiracy.  But its not.  

I speak from my knowledge of how corruption works in the taxi cab business.  

I believe this form of deep yet "centrally spoked" corruption is applicable to what are known as terrorist "cells" in some respects.  (though there maybe be alot more wheels).  In other words, one higher up may independantly have knowledge of various goings on of cells to which he is the "handler"  but none of the other cells know of each other NOR even if you catch a handler, can you be certain that he's shared all of his knowledge about all the cells he's in contact with.

But i also believe that this cell "leader" is gaining financially from these sub-cells because 9/10 the guy at the top is more interested in #1 than he is about the cause.  If he were truely interested in the cause, he'd operate in the open and on the morally righteous "high ground" which would shield him from attack.

I digress.  Back to corruption and conspiracy theories in general.  I believe that if you can understand the dynamics of corruption, then you can understand and put into perspective alot of synergies that when viewed externally appear as a massive conspiracy.  But common sense tells most people that centrally organized conspiracies of a massive scale simply do not work.  

They are in fact compartmentalized.  <-- What do i really know except htat this is a hypothesis id like to persue and examine.  