jan.12.2012


rush limbaugh the propogandist and people like him used differences, to dilineate sides and then once in the fold, he DEFINED to them who they were.  In that way he was able to make people like things that really fundamnetally were against their own core values.

In fact, that is how they turned classical conservatives into neo-liberals.  They told them that being conservative meant being in favor of all these neo-liberal policies.... using wedge issues (that will exist forever because they exist as tools for maintaining the divide) to prop up the illusion that they are on their side.

it's very clever.  It's also how they re-defined what Christianity means to fit into the neo-liberal agenda.  A true Christian as early christians in the USA were, did not try to force Christianity on the world or other Americans.  God gives us all free will, but the neo-liberals want to force everyone to have one faith and moreover, one interpretation of that faith.

So the neo liberals stole the brand "conservatism" but replaced all of its core values with those of neo liberal values.

--

Interestingly, people like Ron Paul aren't conservatives either.  WHy?  Because they are opposed to democracy.  Ron Paul is against democracy.  The next real great leader of the USA will have to be focussed on one key objective... restoring democracy in the age of corruption.  Because what we're talking about right now is the death of our Democracy... the transforming of Democracy into a Capitalist form of government where instead of 1 man 1 vote its $1 == 1 vote.


--

However, the Democratic party today is a result of the NON conservative and franly quite radically liberal business practices by the elites.  The Democrats hwoever basically said, hey... we'll let the strong rape the weak fine, but lets at least allow the weak something or else they'll revolt.

but both parties have increasingly gone from nationalism to globalism which necessitates adoption of neo-liberal views AND anti- democratic views.

What we look for in a leader should be simply... a return to Democracy.

--

Q: It is even possible in today's world for so few representatives to make decisions on so many issues?  SOPA?  The people in Congress can't possibly know all the impact?  It feels like we're at a point where we have too few representatives.  

woah, Cato in 1787 agreed.   http://www.constitution.org/afp/cato_05.htm

And over the last 16 years we've seen increasingly more power go to the president.