
Sept.21.2010

1)  We know how to fix schools but we dont.  That is the first reality that must be addressed before anything can proceed.
    a) the lack of moral authority in our society. 
	b) The Boys of Baraka show us we know how to fix these schools.  
	Anyone (Mayor, City COuncilmen, citizens) who cry about the failed education system and yet don't offer the solution that we know works is just as bad as those who perpetuate the system.  
		i) If we don't expose this reality, that politics has ruined our system, that our politics is not corrupt because of a few bad apples, that it's inherent to the system, then we'll never reach the point where we can change the entire thing.
		ii) 
2)  Obama fundamentally won because he was the politician who ran on the idea that he wasn't going to play "the game."  In Washington.  That he was the anti-politician.  His opponents helped him when they called him naive.  We wanted naive to an extent.  But now we get the player of the game.
	a)  Now Obama praises people like Paulson and Bernanke and Geitner and we know that he is playing the game because those guys are some cold, selfish motherfuckers.  
	b)  Obama has gone from being someone who we thought would not dance with the devil, who would rather call the devil out and expose him and let the people know what they were expecting and that no faustian deals would be made despite the short term costs.... for the greater good and for the righteousness of it all.  Instead he played the game.
	c) Obama believes himself to be good, and fools himself into thinking that the tightrope can be walked.  But it can't.  A tightrope means being committed to staying inbetween good and evil rather than committing to good.  That if you sway to far to evil, you can sway a bit to good and go back and forth.  So we get tiny bits of good and tiny bits of evil instead of getting a whole lot of good.  We are stuck on the tight rope.
	d) In reality, Obama and people like him are the hypocrites on the left as viewed by the Right.  They take the advantages that are given to them by the right (the land acquired by wars, the lifestyles provided by inequity) and then complain about it but you still dont see them giving up much of what they've got in some form of protest.   No.  They keep what they get while they bad mouth how it works publicly.
	
	e)Obama always talks about the middle class.  What about the lower class?  Is this the Democrats version of trickle down economics?  Help the middle class and the lower classes will rise too?  
	
3)  Next time a politician runs for office who is willing to support any war, or going to mars over say curing cancer and diabetes... is a person who is not going to stand up to powerful forces in the end.  They just wont do it.  
We'd rather bomb people than spend money to improve their economic sitation.
We'd rather spend 10x the money incarcerating people than actually building a school system that works
	a) teachers would rather go through the motions than dedicate their lives and time to helping children.
We'd rather spend a trillion dollars defending our oil interests than invest a 250 billion in clean energy grants.
We'd rather spend ignore the issues of race and power rather than talk about the genocide of indians and lack of reparations to black folk
   a) "What you gonna give them niggers my money?"
   