
- would be a mistake for Obama to attack John McCain.  Instead, he need simply continue to do that which has got him here.  That is to say, he needs to  continue to being via his honesty, plain speak, energy, optimism, authenticity, but most of all through his words of wisdom and reason, show that he is the personification of change that we are all looking for.  He doesn't need to tell us that John McCain is more of the same, he can show us.

he articulates the anger's and frustrations we have with government but instead of asking us to get angry about it, he asks us to stand up and to change it.


Intent - the reason Barach Obama is where he is, is because none of the other Democratic candidates were able to convince the American people that they truely intend to do what they say.  And for good reason.  For decades we've seen politicians campaign for the same issues but after the election, nothing changes.  People looked at Hillary Clinton and saw that here we have a candidates that walking like a duck, talking like a duck so it's probably another duck.   A big part of that is trust and Barack Obama has earned that trust by standing up for what's right instead of what's politically convenient.

Foolish Pride - when despite all evidence to the contrary, and despite all voices urgently asking for change, to continue on a path of destruction.


Arrogance - when a person thinks they have the only right answer.

Who is Obmama enholdend too?  Who donates the money?



God gave us eyes so that we may look before we leap.

God gave us ears so that we may listen to each other and learn from each other.

God gave us hands not just so that we could help ourselves, but so we could help one another.

God gave us hearts so that we could empathize with one another.

God gave us our minds, so that we could temper our emotions and think calmly, rationally, soundly and reasonably about the problems we face and allow us to make good choices.


Personality profile of John McCain?  McCain strikes me as somebody who feels that the Presidency is owed him... as if he put in his "dues" and now it's his turn.  He strikes me as someone who's been too far removed from the real issues and problems everyday American's face on a daily basis.  He sees people as a problem that needs to be managed as opposed to citizens who face problems that need to be addressed by Government.

I recently watched the movie "Lars and the Real Girl" and it was a fantasy tale of a community where one member of that community after suffering a huge emotional crisis started "dating" a life sized female doll.  In a very subtle way, it demonstrated a real problem we have in today's society.  Real people and real communities (unlike the one portrayed in the film) don't want to invest the time and energy to help our neighbors who are going through a crisis.  Even worse, allot of these same people don't believe they should have to pay for other people to do this either.  Where does that leave us?  There is a disconnect between allot of die hard Republicans who believe that government shouldnt be involved in social policies in a world where non professionals are uninclined to take on that responsbility either.

