august.2013  posted to gamasutra (although the gama version i made further edits to which i didnt transfer over...laazy) on the article about sexist tropes in games.

And some people call me cynical?! :)

First of all, I would humbly recommend you not get too caught up on some of the implications of the use of "advocacy."  I think it can imply goals such as "reformation" (legal or otherwise) or "revolution" and these may not always be applicable.  Fundamentally, with "advocacy" we're talking about people expressing their opinions through the power of the pen, revealing the truth as they see it, with a hope that their arguments will resonate with some members of their audience.

This is a forum filled with industry professionals.  The people here get to make choices about how they wish to conduct their professional lives and obviously not all of them are apathetic about the real or perceived negatives social influences of the products they help create.  There are plenty of boots here, some may be inspired to put them on the ground.  In other words, these are not random people.  The most effective advocacy is targeted towards those who have a capacity and desire to make a difference.  This of course also implies that the audience being advocated to have a personal stake whereby they cannot afford to be apathetic be it for ethical, moral or other reasons.

Advocacy not only works, it works damn well!  Thomas Paine wrote an advocacy piece titled "Common Sense" that was used to convince the colonial American citizens on the necessity and righteousness of standing against the British.  

Friends of Martin Luther by translating and distributing Luther's "95 Theses's" lead to the Protestant Reformation.  

Centuries later another Martin Luther inspired millions to march for equality in the eyes of the law.  

These are grandiose examples but I believe it's a false standard to suggest that advocacy is pointless if it can't lead to a reformation or revolution.  It doesn't have to.  Advocacy can also lead to a gradual evolution through a process of enlightenment.  

Perhaps we've witnessed a bit of this process within the social games segment of the industry?

As for discussion fading into the backdrop... I'm not quite sure what you expect.  On this site it takes a relevant post to have a relevant discussion.  And I think there's been more such posts in the last 5 years than there have been in the previous 10 (but I'm just guessing).  And there are many sites and blogs out there where ongoing discussions take place about sexism in the media and the culture at large every day.  If the frequency of relevant articles and growth of sites dedicated to these sorts of issue are any measure, then they are having an impact.  

And these advocates are simply not going to go away.

