From the thread "The fall of Seinfeld's Kramer" on pvponline forums where its discussed Richard's "nigger" rant at a comedy club towards an audience member.  Following is my short essay on "nigger" with regards to previous arguments made in the thread.
-Mike Joseph Nov.20th.2006

Personally, I don't think the word "cracker" is anywhere near the level of "nigger" when used as a slur.  A "nigger" refers to something less than human.  I think "gook" would be a much more analogous slur because it also was used as a dehumanizing word in Vietnam.  Cracker to me is more like red neck and is more of an attack against one's beliefs/attitudes/culture than upon their status as a man or woman.

People are always asking "why is it ok for blacks to call each other nigger and not ok for a white person to say it?"  Well, for starters its not ok in the minds of all black people to use that word (or any deriviate thereof) under any circumstances.  It has nothing to do with political correctness to not use derogatory words.  

People should understand that frequent casual use of derogatory words, foul language and the like have the [b]potential [/b]to weaken the spirit, lower self esteem, keep one unenlightened, leads to hateful heart, desensitizes and makes one less able to empathize with others, and altogether lowers one's potential to be the best person they can be.  [b]Potentially[/b].  I'm not a prude.  Everyone swears when angry or frustrated and it's probably therapeutic in these cirumstances.

I think its both sad and scary that young black males (in particular) call each other "nigga."  It's used in a fraternal way to reinforce a shared perception that they are the "bottom of the bottom" and use it to express solidarity within this sphere of negativity.  Words are powerful and the use of these words reveal and reinforce an inner acceptance of degradation.  "Niggas" take up the low class, unsophisticated, criminal bent, "don't give a fuck" mantles of what should be shame and twist them into a false sense of pride.  

This should be a huge concern to people in and outside of black communities.  Casual use of this word is both a problem in and of itself and indicative of other social problems.  Sadly, the use of this word in casual conversation is advocated and perpetuated by the media (primarily music and film).  I'm not in favor of banning _any_ words.  I believe people should be able to say just about anything they please (obviously non slanderous or libelous statements.)  What I am in favor of is educating young people on the effects of language in shaping a person's attitudes, emotions and views.  Children are smarter than some people give them credit.  Don't say the F word "because it's a sin" or "because I said so" are neither good or convincing reasons to refrain from using them.