

Social Unions

	You know, there are unions for people who share the same employer or job or profession, but why stop there?  With the internet, its possible for people to union-ize around ideologies.  

Further, by unioninizing in this way, affiliated sites can be protected from campaigns that might try to shut down their blogs / journals.  Even further, members of these social unions can share information on various practices and such and funnel information to a source.

Slashdot is a form of union but it lacks one key ingrediant... its members are anonymous and their political leanings / advocacies are unknown.  However if people in a union are publicly open in their political views by perhaps being in a PAYING union (with insanely cheap dues) then they become powerful.

Perhaps my company can pioneer software to make the social union membership maintenance easy?  We could encourage students to form unions even in high school and grade school.  

RSS feeds on their home page... maybe custom home pages for members... everything.  

Users can be in many different unions.

You know, craigslist is a good start at unioninzing people by location and there are categories to search for interests you share with others... but it still lacks a certain degree of official ness.  Its all kinda subversive and anonymous and partly thats because there are no charters or professing of beliefs or values or goals.

We can be a catalyst for re-capturing our democracy by getting people back into groups of common minded, goal seeking invidiuals with agendas.  Maybe unions can even vote on agendas and such?  

Another cool concept is the co-operation between unions on temporary basis.  Perhaps two unions can agree for an upcoming political event to join forces with another union to combine their political strength.   

Another reason why anonymity is so bad is that it allows for anonymous people to skew results, to distract serious members, to rabble rouse and make the whole experience angsty and frustrating.

There should be clear charters and rules concerning professionalism and courtesy and such.

You know, there are some forums out there where people do cooperate in this way, however they have no political power because they arent open about their shared beliefs.  

Think about quake clans and such too.  Unions might be able to start as small clans and then the members can agree to merge completely are as siblings to a parent union.  At any point siblings can part or agree to fully merge.  

WHat about identity issues though?  Well, some sibling unions can remain fairly closed and be represented by their organization and have their information only known to their local union members but not to any parent unions...