

The Republican Party.  The party of hypocracy, perjury, bribery, brothel touring, restroom sexing, lewd e-messages to minors, serial adultery, cocaine trafficing, and pay to play political representation. Sweet!


Jack Abramoff - various scandals including the bribing of a U.S Congresssman

Bob Ney - U.S House of Representative for Ohio's 18th District, accused of being bribed by Jack Abramoff amongst other charges.  He chose to not run for re-election in 2006 as a result.

Robert Livingstone - South Carolina Treasurer indicted for trafficing cocaine.

Robert W. Allen - U.S House of Represtantive for Florida and member of John McCain's campaign arrested for solicitation of a male prostitute.

Trent Lott - former U.S Senator from Missipppi was forced to resign over perceived racist statements.

George Allen - ex Senator from Virginia who failed to win re-election in 2006 after making racists statements.  Also attempted to conceal his Jewish ancestory (subsequently admitting it). Also criticized for being anti-abortion yet owning stock in Bar Labs which is the company that makes the Morning AFter Pill.

Randall Harold Cunningham - U.S House of Representative for California's 50th District resigned after pleading guilty to accepting at least $2.4 million in bribes as well as fraud, tax evasion and ohter charges.

Bill Frist - Former U.S Senator from Tennessee and Majority Leader of the Senate.  Is alleged to have been deeply involved in campaign finance improprieties. The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission is investigating insider-trading issues in connection with Frist's July 2005 sale of Hospital Corporation of America shares immediately before the stock's value fell precipitously.

Bob Livingston - former U.S House of Representative for Lousiana who resigned when Hustler magazine announced it would be publishing evidence of Livington having committed adultory after Livingston was one of the vocal conservatives calling for Clinton's impeachment.  Ironically he was to be replaced by David Vitter.

David Vitter - former U.S House of Represantive having replaced Bob Livingston and is currently a U.S Senator for Lousisiana.  Has admitted to having sex with a prostitute run by the "D.C Madam."  Wendy Vitter was quoted as saying she'd be more like Bobett's wife if her husband ever had an affair (this was in response to Bob Livingston's scandal which forced him to resign and which Vitter became his replacement.)  Following this scandal, Wendy Vitter says she has forgiven her husband.

Larry Craig - Accused of being a gay bathroom sex seeker.

Mark Foley - closet gay who was in vocal opposition to gay rights and later accused of sending sexually explicit messages to teenage congressional pages.

Roberto Gonzales - suspected of lying under oath to congress regarding the firings of U.S District Attorneys.

Karl Rove - accused of being evil mastermind <grin>

Lewis "Scooter" Libby - convicted of obstruction of justice related to the outing of a CIA agent.

Bernard Bailey "Bernie" Kerik - was nominated by GW Bush for Secretary of Homeland Security.  Forced to withdraw when it became known he had once hired an illegal immigrant as a nanny.

Donald Rumsfeld - blamed for pushing the NeoCon agenda and FUBAR'ing the Iraq war as well as lying about Iraq's WMD programs and relationship to Osama Bin Laden and Al Queda.

Ted Stevens - Current U.S Senator for Alaska.  Currently under investigation by the FBI and IRS for possible corruption based on his relationship with an oil service company executive who has pled guilty to bribing Alaska legislators, including former State Senator Ben Stevens, son of the U.S. Senator Stevens

Tom Delay - former U.S House of Represenative Majority Leader. Indicted by a Texas grand jury in 2005 for corruption charges.  In January 2006, under pressure from fellow Republicans, DeLay announced that he would not seek to return to the position. In the months before and after this decision, two of his former aides were convicted in the Jack Abramoff scandal.

George W Bush - accused of being an incompetant boob at best and a treasonous lying liar pants on fire asshat who dodges Vietnam and sends young Americans to die over a pack of lies and who pardons his lackeys at worst.  His administration has also bribed columnists to give favorable comments about his polices.  http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bush_administration_payment_of_columnists

Paul Wolfowitz - architect of the Iraq Policy and former WOrld Bank President who was forced to resign admist allegations he helped secure pay raises for his girlfriend.

Dick Cheney - accused of being the biggest dick in the world, for helping to push the neocon agenda, helping secure non contest bigs for Halliburton, being an all around scumbag and for shooting people in the face.

erry Lewis - U.S House of Representative from California and currently the ranking member of the House Appropriations Committe is under Federal investigate for corruption.

John Taylor Doolittle - U.S House of Represantive from California is under investigation for his connection to Abramoff.

Lisa Ann Murkowski - U.S Senator from Alaska investigated for purchasing a house from two developers tied to the Ted Stevens probe whereby the house was sold to her well below market value and constituting an illegal gift in the range of $70-$170k.

Don Young - U.S House of Representative from Alaska. Under federal investigation for possibly taking bribes, illegal gratuities or unreported gifts.

Rick Renzi - former U.S House of Representative from Arizon had his house raided by the FBI and is currently under federal investigation for his involvement in a land-swap deal. He lost his re-election campaign in 2006 to Democrat Ellen Simon.

Peter Domenici - U.S Senator from New Mexico being questioned by Senate Ethics Committeefor his involvement in the firings of U.S Attorney Iglecious.

Heather Wilson - U.S House of Represantive from New Mexico has cloud over her head regarding her phone call to U.S Attorney Iglecious and whether she violated House Ethics Rules. Chapter 7 of the House ethics manual prohibits members from contacting executive or agency officials regarding the merits of matters under their formal consideration. House rules also state that if a member wants to affect the outcome of a matter in litigation, the member can file a brief with the court, make a floor statement, or insert a statement into the Congressional Record. Directly calling officials to influence an ongoing enforcement matter is not an option. House rules also state that a member may not claim he or she was merely requesting “background information” or a “status report” because the House has recognized that such requests “may in effect be an indirect or subtle effort to influence the substantive outcome of the proceedings.”

Tom Feeney - U.S House of Represatnive from Florida. In addition to alot of controversies that smell of corruption http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tom_Feeney#Controversies
and being named one of the "20 Most Corrupt Members of Congress" in a report by Citizens for Responsibility and Ethics in Washington, has also been questioned by the FBI regarding his dealings with Abramoff.



---------
STATE BY STATE GOP SCANDAL SCORECARD

State
Investigation Target
Disposition

Alabama Sen. Richard Shelby


Gov. Robert Riley
Recipient of contributions from Abramoff
Recipient of contributions from Abramoff. Received contributions from.
DeLay's ARMPAC, linked to Abramoff

Alaska Senate President Ben Stevens (son of US Senate Pro Tem President
Ted Stevens)
Sen. Ted Stevens
Probed for accepting consulting fees from oil services firm Veco.
Subject to a recall petition.
Recipient of contributions from Abramoff

Arkansas Arkansas Republican Party Received contributions from.
DeLay's ARMPAC, linked to Abramoff
Arizona Rep. J. D. Hayworth


Rep. Rick Renzi
Recipient of contributions from Abramoff
Recipient of contributions from Abramoff

California Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger








Rep. Randy "Duke" Cunningham






Rep. Dana Rohrabacher



Rep. Doug Ose

Rep. Richard Pombo



Rep. John Doolittle



Rep. Ed Royce
Ethics probe for accepting salary from two men's fitness magazines
while governor, possible kickback from American Media publisher to
Schwarzenegger charity and silence money to a woman who had an
extramarital affair with Schwarzenegger. This probe may go criminal.
Probed for bribery regarding financial ties with and favors for defense
firm MZM. Pleaded guilty to tax evasion, conspiracy, Nov. 28, 2005.

Tied to Abramoff scandal on loan papers. Recipient of contributions
from Abramoff

Recipient of contributions from Abramoff

Recipient of contributions from Abramoff

Recipient of contributions from Abramoff, including Indian casino money

Recipient of contributions from Abramoff

Colorado Colorado Republican Party Received contributions from.
DeLay's ARMPAC, linked to Abramoff
Connecticut Gov. John Rowland
Rep. Rob Simmons


Convicted, imprisoned 2004
Recipient of contributions from Abramoff

Delaware Attorney General Jane Brady Accused of helping MBNA Bank of
Wilmington skirt campaign finance laws.
DC Jack Abramoff, GOP lobbyist
Adam Kidan, DC Dial-a-Mattress franchise in DC and Abramoff associate

Michael Scanlon, former chief of staff to Tom DeLay





Steve Rosen, American Israel Public Affairs Committee (AIPAC)



Keith Weismann, AIPAC



Larry Franklin, Colonel, USAF Reserves, Dept. of Defense



Lewis "Scooter" Libby, Vice President's Chief of Staff





White House Deputy Chief of Staff Karl Rove





David H. Safavian, Head of Procurement Policy, Office of Management and
Budget, former Chief of Staff, General Service Administration

Ex-Corporation for Public Broadcasting Chairman and current
Broadcasting Board of Governors member Kenneth Tomlinson

Patricia Harrison, President Corporation for Public Broadcasting

Vice President Dick Cheney



President George W. Bush





J. Steven Griles, former Interior Deputy Secretary
Indicted, wire fraud, conspiracy
Indicted, wire fraud, conspiracy

Being probed for involvement in Indian casino scandal with Abramoff,
Kidan, and DeLay. Indicted Nov. 18, 2005 for conspiracy to defraud
Indian tribes. Pleaded guilty Nov. 21.

Indicted for criminal conspiracy involving classified national security
information

Indicted for criminal conspiracy involving classified national security
information

Indicted for criminal conspiracy involving classified national security
information

Probed for illegal disclosure of CIA classified information. Indicted
on 5 counts: Obstruction of justice, making false statements and
perjury



Probed for illegal disclosure of CIA classified information.



Arrested by FBI for making false statements about helping Jack Abramoff
acquire two Federal properties in DC and Maryland.



Under investigation for violating the Public Broadcasting Act



Probed for violating Public Broadcasting Act

Investigated for criminal conspiracy in divulging the identity of
covert CIA agent

Probed in Abramoff scandal for accepting bags of illegal campaign cash
from Seminole casino interests in Florida

Probed for links to Abramoff

Florida Rep. Katherine Harris, US Senate candidate


Rep. Tom Feeney







Rep. Ric Keller


Probed for campaign donations from MZM, Inc. (related to Duke
Cunningham probe)
Recipient of contributions from Abramoff. Probed for corporate ties to
Yang Enterprises, involved in over billing state of Florida. Feeney was
Jeb Bush's 1994 running mate for Lt. Gov.

Recipient of contributions from Abramoff and Kidan.

Georgia Ralph Reed, candidate for Lt. Gov.


Sen. John Isakson



Sen. Saxby Chambliss

Rep. Phil Gingrey



Rep. Jack Kingston
Probed for involvement in Abramoff, Kidan, DeLay Indian casino money
laundering.
Recipient of contributions from Abramoff

Recipient of contributions from Abramoff

Recipient of contributions from Abramoff

Recipient of contributions from Abramoff

Guam Gov. Felix Camacho Probed for ties to Abramoff and demoting Acting
US Attorney for Guam Frederick Black
Hawaii New Hawaii PAC and House GOP PAC




Dalton Tanonaka, former Lt. gubernatorial and congressional candidate



State Rep. and House Minority Leader Galen Fox
Campaign violations filed against a number of GOP candidates for the
state legislature and US House for skirting spending limits.
Under FEC investigation for disguising and failing to report campaign
loans. Also investigated for possible illegal foreign funding from Hong
Kong and Japan.

Convicted on federal charges of fondling a woman on a Honolulu to Los
Angeles commercial flight

Idaho Rep. Michael Simpson


Rep. Butch Otter
Recipient of contributions from Abramoff
Recipient of contributions from Abramoff

Illinois House Speaker Dennis Hastert
Rep. Jerry Weller









Republican National Treasurer Bob Kjellander



Former House Leader State Rep. Lee Daniels (Elmhurst)
Probed for accepting money from Turkey.
Recipient of contributions from Abramoff (Weller is married to the
daughter of Guatemalan dictator and mass murderer [300,0000
Guatemalans] Efrain Rios Montt).

Under Federal probe for steering investment contracts to Illinois
Teachers Retirement Fund.

Under Federal investigation for misuse of state employees for political
activity and state contract kickbacks

Indiana Rep. Dan Burton


Gov. Mitch Daniels







Thomas Sharp, INDOT Commissioner



Jim Kittle, GOP state chairman

Rep. Chris Chocola
Recipient of contributions from Abramoff
Under investigation for soliciting campaign donations in return for
INDOT (Indiana Dept. of Transportation contracts)

Under investigation for soliciting campaign donations in return for
INDOT (Indiana Dept. of Transportation contracts)

Under investigation for soliciting campaign donations in return for
INDOT (Indiana Dept. of Transportation contracts)
Received DeLay ARMPAC money. FEC investigating

Iowa Sen. Charles Grassley Recipient of contributions from Abramoff
Kansas Rep. Jim Ryun


Sen. Sam Brownback



Adam Taff
Recipient of contributions from Abramoff
Recipient of contributions from Abramoff

2004 congressional candidate (KS-3), indicted for campaign violations
amnd wire fraud.

Kentucky Gov. Ernie Fletcher






Transportation Commissioner Dan Druen

Deputy Personnel Secretary Bob Wilson

Darrell Brock, Chairman of Kentucky GOP

Gov. Personnel Adviser Basil Turbyfill

Transportation Secretary ill Nighbert

Dick Murgatroyd, Gov. Deputy Chief of Staff

Jim Adams, Deputy Transportation Secretary

Cory Meadows, Executive Director, Transportation Dept.

Environmental Protection Commissioner Lloyd Cress

Sen. Jim Bunning



Lt. Gov. Stephen Pence



Dave Disponett
Criminal probe in a state employees' merit system scandal. Received
contributions from. DeLay's ARMPAC, linked to Abramoff.


Merit system scandal, witness tampering. Indicted.

Merit system scandal. Indicted

Merit system scandal. Indicted.

Merit system scandal. Indicted

Merit system scandal. Indicted

Merit system scandal. Indicted

Merit system scandal. Indicted.

Merit system scandal. Indicted.

Probed in merit system scandal

Recipient of contributions from Abramoff

Received contributions from. DeLay's ARMPAC, linked to Abramoff

Indicted for violation of Kentucky civil service law






Louisiana Sen. David Vitter Linked to Abramoff in a case involving a
Louisiana Indian tribe.
Maine Maine Republican Party Received contributions from. DeLay's
ARMPAC, linked to Abramoff
Maryland Joseph Steffen, aide to Gov. Bob Ehrlich


Gov. Bob Ehrlich
Resigned for starting a rumor campaign against Baltimore Mayor Martin
O'Malley.
Recipient of contributions from Abramoff

Massachusetts Gov. Mitt Romney's Executive Office of Environmental
Affairs




Lawrence Novak, Vice Chair, state GOP
Under ethics cloud for awarding a $10,000 contract to conservative
Boston Herald columnist to write columns supportive of Romney's
policies.


Arrested by FBI for drug money laundering

Michigan Rep. Dave Camp Recipient of contributions from Abramoff
Minnesota Rep. Gil Gutknecht Recipient of contributions from Abramoff
Missouri Sen. Christopher Bond


Sen. Jim Talent



Gov. Matt Blunt, son of Roy Blunt

Rep. Roy Blunt, House Majority Leader
Recipient of contributions from Abramoff
Recipient of contributions from Abramoff

Received contributions from. DeLay's ARMPAC, linked to Abramoff

Investigated for trading illegal PAC money with DeLay through Blunt's
Rely on Your Beliefs Fund. Received Indian casino money from tribes
represented by Abramoff.

Mississippi Rep. Charles Pickering


Rep. Roger Wicker

Sen. Thad Cochran



Sen. Trent Lott
Recipient of contributions from Abramoff
Recipient of contributions from Abramoff

Recipient of contributions from Abramoff

Received funds from casino Indian tribes represented by Abramoff

Montana Sen. Conrad Burns
Rep. Dennis Rehberg
Probed for links to Abramoff
Recipient of contributions from Abramoff

Nebraska Former Rep. Jon Christensen


Rep. Jeff Fortenberry
Recipient of contributions from Abramoff
Received tainted money from DeLay. Refused to return it.

Nevada Sen. John Ensign


Rep. Jon Porter
Recipient of contributions from Abramoff
Received $25,000 from DeLay's ARMPAC

New Hampshire Sen. John Sununu


Rep. Jeb Bradley



House Speaker Gene Chandler

James Tobin, Northeast political director National Republican
Senatorial Campaign Committee

Chuck McGee, former Exec. Dir. New Hampshire Republican Party

Allen Raymond, GOP Marketplace President
Probed for receipt of money from DeLay tainted PAC
Probed for receipt of money from DeLay tainted PAC



Campaign contributions violations

Indicted, conspiracy, GOTV phone line jamming, Sununu 2002 campaign



Pleaded guilty, conspiracy, GOTV phone line jamming, Sununu 2002
campaign

Pleaded guilty to conspiracy, GOTV phone line jamming, Sununu 2002
campaign

New Jersey GOP State Chairman Tom Wilson


Rep. Jim Saxton



Rep. Frank LoBiondo

Rep. Mike Ferguson
Probed for his firm receiving $2.7 million from the Burlington County
Bridge Commission
Recipient of contributions from Abramoff

Recipient of contributions from Abramoff

Recipient of contributions from Abramoff, may have laundered money from
DeLay through his "MIKEPAC" to GOP candidates in Texas and other states

New Mexico Rep. Heather Wilson Recipient of contributions from Abramoff

New York Westchester County District Attorney Jeanine Pirro and US
Senate candidate Probed for campaign donations from mobsters. Her
husband served a year in prison for tax evasion.
Northern Marianas Gov. Froilan Tenorio Grand Jury probe, ties to
Abramoff
North Carolina Rep. Charles Taylor




Hayes Martin, Taylor Campaign Treasurer



Rep. Walter Jones
Probed for ownership of shady Russian bank - whose other major
investor is a former KGB general. Recipient of contributions from
Abramoff
Indicted, fraud and money laundering

Recipient of contributions from Abramoff

North Dakota Richard Clayburgh, House candidate Received contributions
from. DeLay's ARMPAC, linked to Abramoff
Ohio Gov. Bob Taft, Misuse of state funds/ethics violations






Thomas Noe, Bush-Cheney 04 campaign chair, NW Ohio; Turnpike
Commissioner; University Regent

Bernadette Noe, Thomas Noe's wife; chair Lucas County GOP; chair
Lucas Co. Board of Elections

Brian Hicks, Taft chief of staff, member Ohio University Board of
Trustees

Cherie Carroll, Taft Chief of Staff Executive Secretary



Rep. Bob Ney









Rep. Jean Schmidt







Rep. Ralph Regula



Douglas Moormann, Gov. Taft's Executive Assistant for Business and
Industry
Convicted, four first degree misdemeanors, pleaded no contest
(admission of guilt). $4000 fine and public apology, two Federal Grand
Juries, one state Grand Jury still investigating Taft.


Misuse of state funds for rare coin fund. Indicted by Federal grand
jury, arrested in Florida.

Misuse of state funds





Convicted



Convicted



Being probed for involvement with Abramoff, Kidan, and DeLay, Indian
casino money laundering. Recipient of contributions from Abramoff and
Kidan. Indictment may be imminent.

Probe of financial ties to Games, Inc., and proposal to put Ohio State
Lottery on the Internet. Received contributions from. DeLay's ARMPAC,
linked to Abramoff



Recipient of contributions from Abramoff



Under criminal investigation for accepting loan from Noe.

Oklahoma Rep. Ernest Istook


Sen. James Inhofe

Sen. Tom Coburn
Recipient of contributions from Abramoff
Recipient of contributions from Abramoff

Recipient of contributions from Abramoff

Oregon Sen. Gordon Smith


State Rep. Dan Doyle
Recipient of contributions from Abramoff
Misused campaign funds. Convicted.

Pennsylvania Rep. Don Sherwood




Rep. Curt Weldon

Sen. Arlen Specter

Rep. Joe Pitts



Rep. Mike Fitzpatrick
Investigated by DC police for assaulting and choking a 29-year old
Maryland woman
Recipient of contributions from Abramoff

Recipient of contributions from Abramoff

Recipient of contributions from Abramoff

Recipient of money from DeLay's ARMPAC (subject of Federal
indictments), money laundered from Abramoff sources.

Puerto Rico Puerto Rican New Progressive Party (GOP affiliate party)
Paid Abramoff $400,000 for lobbying for 1998 statehood referendum
Rhode Island Former House candidate (2002) Mike Battles




Providence Mayor Vince Cianci
Firm, Custer Battles, disbarred from Iraq contracts after allegations
of over charging and money laundering


Imprisoned in 2002 for 5 years.

South Carolina Rep. Joe Wilson


Rep. Gresham Barrett



Rep. Henry Brown
Received contributions from. DeLay's ARMPAC, linked to Abramoff
Received contributions from. DeLay's ARMPAC, linked to Abramoff

Received contributions from. DeLay's ARMPAC, linked to Abramoff

South Dakota Sen. John Thune


Rep. Bill Janklow
Recipient of contributions from Abramoff
Guilty, second degree manslaughter, imprisoned. Recipient of
contributions from Abramoff

Tennessee Rep. Van Hilleary
Sen. Bill Frist
Recipient of contributions from Abramoff
Under Securities and Exchange Commission investigation for insider
trading on his Hospital Corporation of America (HCA) stock

Texas Rep. Tom DeLay, House Majority Leader














Jim Ellis, Director Americans for a Republican Majority (ARMPAC) PAC
tied to DeLay and Abramoff

John Colyandro, Texans for a Republican Majority (TRMPAC), DeLay
associate

Warren RoBold, Lobbyist and DeLay associate

House Speaker Tom Craddick

Sam Walls, candidate for Texas House



State Rep. Todd Baxter







Rep. Kevin Brady



Rep. Pete Sessions
Probed for campaign finance fraud, ties to Abramoff/Kidan, Saipan
sweat shops. Grand Jury, Travis County prosecutor, and House Ethics
Committee probing DeLay. Indicted by Travis County District Attorney
for 1 count of criminal conspiracy and 2 counts of money laundering.
Arrested and booked at Harris County jail October 20, 2005. Recipient
of contributions from Abramoff
Indicted







Indicted



Indicted

Probed for campaign violations involving TRMPAC and DeLay

Photos of him wearing women's clothes surfaced in the 2004 runoff
campaign

Investigated for receiving ARMPAC and TRMPAC money from Republican
National Committee. To resign from office on Nov. 1, 2005

Recipient of $10,000 from ARMPAC in 2003. Arrested for DWI in South
Dakota.

Probed for receiving money from casino Indian tribes represented by
Abramoff

Utah Rep. Chris Cannon Recipient of contributions from Abramoff
Vermont Gov. Jim Douglas Opposition to universal health care in Vermont
tied to huge contributions from insurance industry.
Virginia Rep. Virgil Goode


Jerry Kilgore, gubernatorial candidate

Rep. Eric Cantor

Rep. Randy Forbes

Sen. George Allen

Rep. Tom Davis


Probed for contributions from MZM, Inc. (related to Duke Cunningham
probe)
Received $5000 from MZM, Inc.

Recipient of contributions from Abramoff

Recipient of contributions from Abramoff

Recipient of contributions from Abramoff

Recipient of contributions from Abramoff and Kidan.

Washington Rep. George Nethercutt


Rep. Doc Hastings

Spokane Mayor Jim West
Recipient of contributions from Abramoff
Recipient of contributions from Abramoff

Under Federal and state investigation for abusing his office to obtain
sexual favors and soliciting sex over the Internet from underage males.

West Virginia Rep. Shelly Moore Capito Received contributions from.
DeLay's ARMPAC, linked to Abramoff
Wisconsin Rep. Paul Ryan


Rep. Mark Green
Recipient of contributions from Abramoff
Recipient of funds from DeLay's ARMPAC

Wyoming Sen. Mike Enzi
Rep. Barbara Cubin
Recipient of contributions from Abramoff
Recipient of contributions from Abramoff