	
"A controversial ad for Activision's new Call of Duty: Black Ops...."

1) Some people honestly believe that violent video games AND violent television and films are bad influences on children. That's never going to change. We'd all better learn to better deal with this reality as well as with all the differing opinions in debates on a host of local, regional, national and worldly issues.

2) It's time to stop being outraged by the outrage. (so to speak). It's mostly media sensationalism for $$$$ banking on the fact that people are easily stirred up over anything. If you equate "controversy" to whatever the mainstream media tells you it is, then what does that say about most controversies? They're fabricated. If one person in 1,000 disagrees with some opinion, is that a controversy? How do you define a controversy? Is it a controversy if some people don't like an ad on TV that you like?

3) One can walk up to 100 random adults on the street and ask them what they think about violent video games and I'm fairly certain you won't find anyone who is up and arms over the situation. There will be some with objections but you will find them all very civilized and personable and nice to talk to I'm sure.

Our society is far far far from being touchy on any number of issues... if you actually go and talk to people with differing viewpoints you'll find that you can have reasonable debates with the vast majority of them. But if you're watching or reading the news you wouldn't think so.

We simply have to try to rise above the level of fanaticism that popular media attempts to reduce us all to. We need to quit acting like opposing fans at a Lakers game.


EDIT: If you don't think media in general can have detrimental affects on the intellectual and social development of people, then frankly, you're still living in the 1930s. Once you at least accept that the media has a huge-mondo-super-tremendous impact on people, then it's not really just a matter of violence in video games, it's a general matter of content (and lack of quality content) in media period. The real debate should be about how do we educate people to this reality.

If you still don't buy it, then you can't deny there's at least an opportunity cost of engaging in frivolous activities as opposed to those that advance your higher mind. Tomorrow we'll have some people somewhere complaining about the rude comments made by others in games, on message boards, wherever... well, there's no pleasing them is there? They want people to act like refined human beings but they want it to happen miraculously in a society full of too many spaces void of refining influences.

EDIT 2: Sex, money and murder. That is our politics... base (low/prehistoric/reptilian) brain issues. That is why all debates and fake controversies are related to or the discussions formulated about issues of sex, freedom and security/safety (financial and personal) and health/life/death. But God forbid you should think in more sophisticated ways... That's not what the media does. It's not what the games industry does or promotes for the most part either.   And that is a shame for an industry where so many children consume it's products.  Art... hah.
