

Some have suggested that Barack Obama is a "phenomenon" when in fact what they really mean is he's a "fad" a sort of political equivalent to Britney Spears.  


Do the Clintons see Barack Obama as a mere "phenomenon?"  If so, then it goes a long way in explaining just how these two political giants  could possibly have underestimated a young Democrat from Illinois with a big ears and a funny name to find themselves in the position they are in now.

Ron Paul _almost_ got it.  During a CNN Debate, Ron Paul exclaimed "This country is in a revolution.  They're sick and tired of what they're getting and I happen to be lucky enough to be part of it."  From this I think we can see a subtle but significant difference between Ron Paul and Barack Obama.  Ron Paul did recognize the discontent, dissatisfaction, the angers and frustrations that many voters had been feeling, 


It was hard for the Clintons to recognize and appreciate Obama's strengths?  Is that the cloud of arrogance? The Clinton's rise to power is defined by a set of skills that is markedly different than those used by Barack Obama.   They used X, Y, Z.  Often is the case when faced with an opponent who's strengths are very dis-similar to your own, is a tendancy to discount and inadequately weight those strengths.  I'm not sure it's entirely arrogance but also ignorance and a lack of wisdom.  Afterall, one should never, ever underestimate an opponent.  And in Barack Obama they sized him up and expressed such a geninuine incredulousness about his rise to success.


But there's a stark difference between Ron Paul and Barack Obama.  Ron Paul was acting predominantly as a mouth piece for th


If you watch McCain on the campaign trail, you'd swear that he was _trying_ to lose in November.  He continues to align himself with Bush.  He continues to pander and insult the intelligence of his audiences 

If McCain wanted to win, all he would have to do is suggest that we'd be ending the war as soon as possible, 


So what strengths does Barack Obama have that the Clintons do not?

Barack is a natural leader.  Holding the highest office in the land does not a leader make.  Forcing people to do what they don't want to do is not leadership either.  Leadership is listening, hearing and then focussing, refining and articulating their voices into a single message and THEN not simply spear heading, but organizing, unifying, and driving this movement.  Natural leaders are therefore intuitive and empathetic to be able to listen and hear what people are saying.  And then they are spirited, very positive and optimistic "can do" types with a gift for articulating the message and conveying that optimism for what's possible.  This in turn energizes and emboldens the people and results in a sort of positive feedback loop where the more the base got energized the more support they garnered.

The Clinton's strategy was too slow the motion of this loop and hope that it would then wear itself out.  This might've happened had Barack Obama been a mere "fad" and not in fact leading an a very real movement.  But the key here is that Barack Obama wasn't their biggest adversary.  Their own style of politics were because the base supporters of this movement had rejected dynasties, partisan bickering, divisions, lies, corruption, and the Clinton's represented all of that.

There's all this conventional wisdom that politicians must inspire their base during the primaries and then move to the center during the general.  Barack will likely be unable to do that, but he won't need too.  

People want to be lead (find a clever old quote here).  

Barack isn't a Democrat in the same way that Ron Paul isn't a Republican.  This reflects the schism in the party and it also explains what seems like hypocracy amongst Democratic pundits and radio hosts who support Hillary.  They keep wanting to dismiss Barack Obama as an infatuation or some type of temporary love affair without substance.



