April.24.2011

The goal of an American should be to improve upon the concept of an individual freedom from the state and other institutions frankly.   The seperation of Church and State was fundamnetally a decision to prevent the only other powerful institution from gaining control over the population at some point in the future.

I think now Corporations represent large institutions that have taken over the country.  This is the language we need to be speaking in and we can't do it in angsty rants, it can only be done in rational discourse.  We need to bring back the calm sober intellectuals and the 



Which brings us to the second point about the Media serving as a place where there's no such thing as an issue that can be solved so long as they are always willing to find two people with opposing views and stick them on there to yell at each other back and forth.

The entire media system is broken.

Young Turks is nice but what it's missing is journalistic integrity.  What do i mean?  They are too biased and political and what we need instead is an apolitical newscast with strong rules, a strong and clearly defined charter and set of values that they would hold forever


- real debates with actual debate rules and NOT pseudo debates.
- never giving up sources
- see my other article titled "the virtues of the politics of reason.txt"


I think it's important that we forget about "fairness" and we recognize that we don't want government to make life fair... that's rather impossible.  What we want though is government to keep us from being subverted by some secret societies, some groups that want to take over.  Because as colonists breaking away from England and a King and fleeing religious persecution of their own... and as well as leaving a land where there were constant wars against neighboring states... the USA didn't want to be caught up in any of that bullshit.   

But clearly we did eventually and that fundamental change of thought is what has become evil... as well as the subversion by small groups 

