sept.02.2009

The left have no heart.

Was watching the ep of Stargate SG1 titled "Absolute Power" where the harreesis (sp?) child who is like a little budha is teaching Daniel about his future path.  He touches Daniel and transfers the memories of the goaulds that the team had been seeking.

and one point the boy states

"The true nature of a man is determined in the battle between his conscious mind and the desires of his subconscious. The evil in the subconscious is too strong to resist, and the only way to win is to deny it battle."

after reading this i thought about "El Topo" and how when he fought the atheist he aimed for the mind because the atheist had no heart.  

That is the problem with the left... the basis of the intellectual left is void of heart.. it is void of a any underlyign belief system and because of that, it is always falling victim to the evil of the subconcious... that force within us that can find a way to rationalize all manner of evil behavior.  The left concedes battle after battle because without a heart it is weak.  It has no integrity.  The progressives in this country need to take up the mantle of an actual belief... and to fill it's rhetoric with a heart and not just hollow intellectualism because afterall, hollow intellectualism is nietcheistic afterall...  We are spiritual behings and without some basis for our belief we will be incapable of sustaining the right path... we will eventually rationalize our ways to taking the wrong paths.




The reason the left and the right are both ultimately this way is because they are both neo liberals and victims to varying degrees of nietche's philosophy.


this has really interested me now in studying budhism.  the quote above about denying the subconscious mind battle is intriguing to me and my current understanding is unsure so i'm troubled about how one might reconcile persuit of goals of wealth, with denying the subconcious battle... because to me persuit of such goals is the battle it seaks.  I think the answer is that if this persuit is not a path to enlightenment, then how can one be taught the values of persuing enlightenment?


other quotes from Oma Desala from SG1

Lightning flashes, sparks shower, in one blink of your eyes you have missed seeing.

When the mind is enlightened, the spirit is freed and the body matters not.

You must complete the journey you began at Kheb. Only then will you be able to find your way to the Great Path.

Release your burden.

One cannot reach enlightenment by running from death.

Many roads lead to the Great Path. Only the willing will find their way.

The river tells no lies, though standing on the shore, the dishonest man still hears them.

The future is never certain. You saved many without regard for your own life.

You can never reach enlightenment if you do not believe you are worthy.

Because it is so clear it takes a long time to realize it. If you immediately know the candlelight is fire, the meal was cooked a long time ago.

The success or failure of your deeds does not add up to the sum of your life. Your spirit cannot be weighed. Judge yourself by the intention of your actions and by the strength with which you faced the challenges that have stood in your way.

The universe is vast and we are so small. There is only one thing we can ever truly control. Whether we are good or evil.

Anyone can reach enlightenment. Anyone prepared to open their mind as you did when you first came to Kheb.

Walking the Great Path brings great responsibility. You cannot fear it nor hesitate in your resolve.
