
WARNING:  This WARNING is written by the owner of this Repository, Michael Preston Joseph.
The below txt was NOT WRITTEN BY ME.  

I do not know who wrote the below text.  I have edited this text document to include this WARNING only but 
otherwise, I have left it in place within the NewTestamentWritings directory. I will edit the name of this "Jesus Walks on Water.txt.txt" to
FAKE_POST_WARNING-Jesus Walks on Water.txt
-Michael Preston Joseph


----------------
https://seedbed.com/gospels-the-master-class-on-walking-on-water/


CONSECRATE
Wake up, sleeper, rise from the dead, and Christ will shine on you. 

Jesus, I belong to you.

I lift up my heart to you.
I set my mind on you.
I fix my eyes on you.
I offer my body to you as a living sacrifice.

Jesus, we belong to you. 

Praying in the name of the Father, and the Son, and the Holy Spirit, amen. 

HEAR
Matthew 14:25–31 NIV
Shortly before dawn Jesus went out to them, walking on the lake. When the disciples saw him walking on the lake, they were terrified. “It’s a ghost,” they said, and cried out in fear.

But Jesus immediately said to them: “Take courage! It is I. Don’t be afraid.”

“Lord, if it’s you,” Peter replied, “tell me to come to you on the water.”

“Come,” he said.

Then Peter got down out of the boat, walked on the water and came toward Jesus. But when he saw the wind, he was afraid and, beginning to sink, cried out, “Lord, save me!”

Immediately Jesus reached out his hand and caught him. “You of little faith,” he said, “why did you doubt?”

CONSIDER
If we were to create a Top Ten Gospels highlight reel, this scene from today’s text would surely be near the top. In fact, I’ll add a journal prompt assignment to this end for you to respond to. Now let’s go Gospelling.

1. So for starters, IMHO the keepers of the Bible have buried the lead on this story. The Bible headline (which is not actually the Bible) reads: “Jesus Walks on Water.” The real headline should read: “Peter Walks on Water!” 

2. To get the full effect of this miraculous scene we need to look at the larger set of happenings around it. Jesus has just fed well more than five thousand people an all-you-can-eat buffet with a mere five loaves of bread and two fish. We will dive deep into this one in season 2 (a.k.a. Mark), but for now the most telling word from this story is Jesus telling his disciples, “You give them something to eat” (Matt. 14:16b). Far beyond a miracle, this was a training exercise. In fact, you will remember from our reading we are in the midst of a massive training program by now. Today’s focus text is also a training exercise. 

3. Jesus is not concerned with his capacity and ability to demonstrate the kingdom of heaven on earth. He’s got that in spades. His primary concern now: training us to demonstrate his capacity and ability to demonstrate the kingdom of heaven on earth. I remember many years ago coming across Jesus’s stunning promise to us in John 14:

Very truly I tell you, whoever believes in me will do the works I have been doing, and they will do even greater things than these, because I am going to the Father. (v. 12) 

I knew immediately (and still know) there are one of two possible truths about these words. 1. They are not true, or 2. I am not getting it. I think you know where I land on this one. It’s not about doing miracles though. I have become convinced we do not do the greater things because we do not possess the greater love. We don’t have a power problem; we have a love deficit. I’ll never forget the words on the marquee sign at the local bank: “Where there is great love, miracles always happen.”

4. Now look at me burying the lead: Peter walks on water. This is not a miracle story. It is a faith story, and before that, it is a fear story. We are getting down to the codes of Jesus’s kingdom now. Love moving in faith. The obstacle is fear. The master class is not how to walk on water—it’s how faith overcomes fear.  Behold: 

But when he saw the wind, he was afraid and, beginning to sink, cried out, “Lord, save me!”

Immediately Jesus reached out his hand and caught him. “You of little faith,” he said, “why did you doubt?”

Last word to John today: “There is no fear in love, but perfect love casts out fear” (1 John 4:18a ESV).

And perfect love has a name. Can I get a witness? 

PRAY
Lord Jesus, thank you for the rest of the story, which says, “And when they climbed into the boat, the wind died down.” Thank you for the most important miracle of all—faith, and that no matter how much fear we have or if we fall, you will get into the boat with us and get us to the other side. And thank you for the end of the story today, which says, “Then those who were in the boat worshiped him, saying, “Truly you are the Son of God.” I join this worship now. Praying in your name, Jesus. Amen. 

JOURNAL
