Sept 11, 2026


El Niño - "The Christ Child" - a Sign of the Scales Being Tipped
The 3rd Horseman of the Apocalypse is "Climate Change!" It's been staring at us all along.

Apparently, Peruvian fisherman in the 19th century started referring to this warming pattern of ocean current near the coast as "El Niño de Navidad (the Christmas Child)" because it peaked around December. 

I never knew that this was the phenomenon's full name. I've only ever heard it referred to as "El Niño" in the mainstream media. 

We ignore or disbelieve the signs that are all over the place. And so, no sign will be given those who can't see.
--

Matthew 16:4 - "A wicked and adulterous generation looks for a sign, but none will be given it except the sign of Jonah.” Jesus then left them and went away."

Mark 8:11 - " 11 The Pharisees came and began to question Jesus. To test him, they asked him for a sign from heaven. 12 He sighed deeply and said, “Why does this generation ask for a sign? Truly I tell you, no sign will be given to it.” 13 Then he left them, got back into the boat and crossed to the other side."
--

World's oceans hit highest temperature on record as El Niño grows
https://lnkd.in/gY34zHK5

https://lnkd.in/gks2A6yn

Revelation 6:6 - I looked, and behold, a black horse; and he who sat on it had a pair of SCALES in his hand. .... "Two pounds of wheat [A TYPE OF GRAIN] for a day’s wages, and six pounds of barley for a day’s wages, and do not damage the oil and the wine!”

"With many parts of the world already experiencing drought or unfavorable planting conditions, wild weather can make things even harder. “The El Niño signal hasn’t reached the major staple grains yet, but when it does it arrives in a market that’s already tight,” Puma said."

"A Goldman Sachs analysis predicts the El Niño could contribute to a roughly 16% price increase in global food commodities. The World Food Program is projecting there will be at least 49 million people experiencing acute food insecurity by the end of 2027."

So the scales aren't just for measuring grains. it's for telling us that CLIMATE CHANGE TIPPING POINTS have been reached.

Key Categories of Tipping Elements
Scientists group these vulnerable systems into three main areas:

The Cryosphere (Ice and Snow):
Greenland Ice Sheet: Melting accelerates as lower, warmer altitudes are reached.
West Antarctic Ice Sheet: Warm ocean water eats away at ice sitting below sea level.
Mountain Glaciers: Retreat threatens local water supplies and ecosystems. 

Ocean Currents:
AMOC (Atlantic Meridional Overturning Circulation): Weakening flow could disrupt global weather and monsoons.
Subpolar Gyre: Changes in deep ocean mixing affect regional climates. 

The Biosphere (Ecosystems):
Amazon Rainforest: Drought and deforestation risk turning parts of the jungle into dry savanna.
Coral Reefs: Widespread die-offs occur as ocean temperatures and acidity rise.
Permafrost: Thawing releases trapped greenhouse gases like methane and carbon dioxide.