Revelations - Two of Four Horsemen 

Ronald Reagan = White Horseman.
     Revelation 19:11 - "I saw heaven standing open and there before me was      a white horse, whose rider is called Faithful and True. With justice he judges and wages war."

Reagan in "Tribute to a doG" utters the phrase "Faithful and True" (see 2m40 sec mark) which is the name of the White Horseman in Revelations.

https://lnkd.in/grh2ZNMu

----
Osama bin Laden= Red Horseman
     Revelation 6:4 - "And another, a [a]fiery red horse [of bloodshed], came out; and its rider was empowered to take peace from the earth, so that men would slaughter one another; and a great sword [of war and violent death] was given to him."

Osama and the GWB WMDs lies lies lies era , started our (USAs) CIVIL STRIFE.

Interestingly, Reagan and bin Laden both loved/rode horses.

https://lnkd.in/gXdJRvQh

"President Ronald Reagan's favorite horses were two Arabians named El Alamein and the older Little Man.... . When Little Man died in 1982, Reagan told his aides that it marked "the end of an era". 
 
The end of an era indeed...

https://lnkd.in/gzPtpZSz

"Since childhood, his passion for the horse was instilled by the gift of a horse from his uncle Sheikh Bakr Binladen”

Reagan ushered in massive military spending, weakening of unions, tax cuts for the wealthy, deficit spending (the rise of the UN-fiscal, "fiscal conservatives"), war on drugs *cough* blacks, deregulation and incentives for moving jobs overseas.

"Quora generally agree that while Reagan's pro-business stance did not explicitly mandate outsourcing, his deregulation and anti-union positions aligned with corporate profit-driven incentives that later made foreign labor attractive. [1]"
.
     "During Ronald Reagan’s presidency (1981–1989), the annual federal budget deficit nearly tripled, and the gross national debt rose from $995 billion to $2.9 trillion. This increase was driven by a combination of major tax cuts, a large military buildup, and continuous growth in domestic entitlement spending. [1, 2]"

Osama bin Laden got the mighty USA Elephant to run amok (go insane) since it could not be defeated directly (militarily or economically.)  Osama's time is that of hanging chads, Limbaugh, Rupert Murdoch, Fox Noise, Neo -Cons, toxic politics, a broken supreme court, and the "Patriot" Act which created NSA warrantless wide-spread illegal surveillance (See Edward Snowden leaks), ICE (that's right... ICE) and the Department of Homeland Security. 

The Book of Revelation does not require anything we would regard as super natural to occur, in order to explain any of the predictions that are made within.  The signs of decay have always been there but we refuse to accept them since they are not magical 

Some  of my interpretations from October of 2025
https://lnkd.in/gM3VSPFr

and
https://lnkd.in/gYNk5Hbq

As one can see, the "end times" have actually been in going for some time.

To be clear, it cannot be assumed that the White Horseman is a "good" person/entity/force.  It is an instrument of God to wage a war against the  (wicked) USA (aka Babylon).  In other words, we cannot assume that Ronald Reagan KNOWINGLY set about to sabotage the USA, in order to do God's will.  Nevertheless, Reagan's policies DID start us down the path which has lead us to now... crises on every front (economic, employment, ecological, climate, civics/politics).  In God's eyes, this is long due Justice for a kingdom that has been so terribly wicked for so very long.

Unfortunately since most self professed Christians do not know Jesus' actuall teachings from the four Gospels, they don't realize that the Babylon referenced in Revelations is or could possibly be their beloved (but actually extremely wicked) United States.

Many who clearly know next to nothing about Jesus simply cannot see that there is no way He would be the White Horseman ... Jesus promoted fulfilling the law by awakening us spiritually.  He embodied non-violent revolution via the awakening of our minds, not through war and force 

Matthew 26:53 -  "Do you think I cannot call on my Father, and he will at once put at my disposal more than twelve legions of angels?"

Jesus put a stop to violence when he could.

John 8:7 - "When they kept on questioning him, he straightened up and said to them, “Let any one of you who is without sin be the first to throw a stone at her.”

 Matthew 26:52 - "“Put your sword back in its place,” Jesus said to him, “for all who draw the sword will die by the sword."

0 
---
Additional Thoughts on the arrivals of the SPIRITS that are the White and Red Horsemen, and which are with us to this day...

1) Reagan created a program called the Strategic Defense Initiative (SDI) which was dubbed "Star Wars" by the media. Directed Energy Weapons were becoming a thing...

2) Star Wars is also famous for the line by Obi-wan: 
"These aren't the droids you're looking for...." and today we have subliminal suggestion technology in the form of Acoustic Sound Devices.

3) Freedom Fighters from Afghanistan (mujahedin - "those who engage in jihad") resisting the invading Soviet Union forces, were supported and funded by the CIA under the Reagan Administration. This "program" was started under the Carter Administration but was dramatically scaled up under Reagan. However Osama bin Laden and the specific independent groups he went on to join did NOT benefit directly from this USA assistance. 

Google AI Overview --
Long-Term Impact
Geopolitical Fallout: The decentralized funding and routing of weapons through Pakistan inadvertently empowered hardline Islamic fundamentalist factions.

Historical Debate: While the intervention successfully bled the Soviet military and contributed to their 1989 withdrawal, historians and analysts note that the power vacuums and networks left behind later contributed to the rise of militant groups, including the Taliban and al-Qaeda.
--


