August 25, 2026

Revelation 13:10 in the New International Version (NIV) reads:
 “If anyone is to go into captivity, into captivity they will go. If anyone is to be killed with the sword, with the sword they will be killed.” This calls for patient endurance and faithfulness on the part of God's people. [1]

While reading the above verse in the church today, I had this revelation: This verse is about MENTAL SLAVERY (captivity) and SPIRITUAL DEATH. The more you understand Jesus' teachings, the more meaning will be REVEaled. 

As I've stated elsewhere, you can apply the metric "Does this interpretation apply to everyone (as all of Jesus' teachings do) or just special people The above verse references soldiers/people armed with weapons, but the deeper meaning applies to EVERYONE. 

Matthew 13:11 (on why Jesus speaks in parables) He replied, “Because the knowledge of the secrets of the kingdom of heaven has been given to you, but not to them. 12 Whoever has will be given more [EDIT BY ME -> given more revelations/understanding], and they will have an abundance. Whoever does not have, even what they have will be taken from them [EDIT BY ME -> what little understandings they do have will be taken away] . 

I ask you LinkedIn reader, do you have a strongman in your "house?" to protect you from mental slavery and spiritual death? Maybe you have the strongest man in your house?

Matthew 12:29 - “Or again, how can anyone enter a strong man’s house and carry off his possessions unless he first ties up the strong man? Then he can plunder his house.

I hope this demonstrates that you simply CANNOT have Jesus as your strongman if you do not even know his teachings. The deeper meaning of the above quote from Revelations is very difficult to fully understand (beyond the surface level meaning of PHYSICAL captivity and PHYSICAL death by being cut/impaled by a sword) IF YOU DO NOT ALREADY KNOW the 4 Gospels and the meaning of the parables within (aka Jesus' teachings.)

Beware of the false teachings of folks like Ayn Rand and Sigmund Freud (see the excellent documentary "The Century of Self" free on https://lnkd.in/gn5ECQAg YouTube
as to why. Freud's "Superego" and "Id" is a rip-off and corrupted half-truth lifted from Jesus' Kingdom of Heaven within each of us, where Jesus sits on the throne). Marketing and Political campagins and all manner of psychological operations are based on Freud's "work." 

Also please read my document "The Suppression of Jesus' Teachings by the Romans and Pharisees."
https://lnkd.in/gYNk5Hbq


I implore you, don't be a
- slave to physical threats/violence, money, power, cruelty/sadism/torture

- death by materialism, capitalism, superficiality, bigotry, racism & xenophobia, megalomania, celebrity/influencer worship, etc.

----
"Why isn't this working?" one agent asks? 

Because Morpheus has a "strongman at home."

The accuser then tries to manipulate Morpheus (you are a virus, a plague, a disease, dirty, smelly, inferior, a dinosaur)

-----------------------------
MY COMMENT TO MY OWN POST
August 5 2026
if you do not know Jesus' teachings, how can you know what goes AGAINST his teachings? (ie. are anti-Christian)  For instance, Ayn Rand and Freud's "work" are anti-Christian in my opinion and have been extremely harmful to society, yet we're more concerned with arguing about Biblical literalism and Darwin's theory of evolution.  *I pesonally think God is doing the "selecting" in "Natural Selection."*  If i'm not mistaken, the Greek word for Judging and Selecting is the same... 'krino.'  

Furthermore, if you know Jesus' teachings, you will know that he is very much about strengthening our MINDS through our SPIRITUALITY (Kingdom of Heaven Within) and FAITH, and NOT VIOLENCE.  Jesus is OBVIOUSLY not talking about an outcome of combat with swords because He is always promoting strengthening your spirituality(KoHV) and COMMITTING ACTS OF VIOLENCE WEAKENS YOUR SPIRITUALITY (KoHW).  

I posted a video version of this on my YouTube playlist (only 2 videos currently) titled New Testament: Gospels and Revelations.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-RVNOmgPE5A&list=PLINd5ZVUTl0g