January 20, 2026   12:20am

(One of the problems I'm having with this text is I haven't decided if it wants to be speech or whether it's a memo for what to do and how to do it.)

(Denali - "The High One", Mitt Romney, taller than Everest from base to summit 18k versus 12k climb)


The Mountain Top
---------------------------
Impetus for writing this:  "Their" views and interpretations of Jesus and thus Christianity, are vastly different from my own.  Therefore, their "hearts and minds" differ in very serious ways as well.  History has shown that it is not enough to have legal protections in the written "Laws of the Land" if a very significant (and potentially powerful) minority of the population, reject those laws because it runs afoul (in their minds) of their "hearts and minds."

Francis Bacon is quoted as saying "If the Mountain won't come to Mohammed, then Mohammed must come to the mountain."  Liberals and progressives must not write off the far-right as lost causes.   Doing so only pushes them further into the margins, causes them to be increasily engaged, motivated and active politically (this manifests itself in all sorts of ways... everything from recruiting others into their ranks (including young people), being a vocal minority in online places making many parts of the internet feel exclusionary and unwelcoming to certain demographics, and makes them increasingly dangerous to the well being of the country in terms of violence, corruption(political and business), and even spiritual.  However, if they are standing firm and will not budge POLITICALLY, then we must try something more fundamental.

WE must GO TO THE MOUTAIN. (aka: We must work to achieve nothing less than the Spiritual Awakening of Everyone in This Country)

Yesterday was Martin Luther King Jr's birthday holiday and the day before he died, he spoke of just wanting to "do God's will" and having been to the MOUNTAIN TOP and having seen the promised land.  We MUST go to the MOUNTAIN and begin the ascent TOGETHER, if we want to get to the promised land as a people.


A Battle For Hearts And Minds
-----------------------------
At the mountain a battle for the hearts and minds of these lost sheep must take place.  This battle is not about politics per-se, unless you believe that anyone who tries to persuade you to look within your hearts, and to examine the precepts of your Faith and asks that you reconcile your views with that Faith and then make a careful, studied, decision of the direction YOU want to take your life in.  Our Faith exists in our hears and minds, but our FRUITS (good and bad) are produced when we filter (or NOT) our CHOICES through the precepts of our FAITH.  Get off of the auto-pilot... because auto-pilot isn't really what you think it is.  Auto-pilot is when something else is in control.  I'm asking all of you to take back control of your choices and decisions.  

I intend to join that battle with a coalition of conservatives and liberals and we will do our best to win the hearts and minds of these lost sheep; to wrest them away from the teachings and false ideologies peddled by false prophets.  What is a prophet?  In Jesus' day, He was regarded as a Rabbi (teacher), a messenger of God (someone who spreads false doctrines, that is... who tells us what we should believe and what we should be doing), a healer through supernatural means, someone who knew the future, and someone who knew God. Sadly, this world and this country, is full of false prophets.  Jesus said to beware of these "ravenous wolves" who spread false messages, lack a genuine connection to God, and perform deceptive "miracles" or "signs" and that we can identify these people by their "fruits" or actions.  Many of the far-right talking heads you see on television or hear on the radio... they are false prophets my friends.  I  know most of you don't want to hear this, but I promise you by the end of this talk, you'll have a better understanding of what exactly I mean.  But these people make loads of money serving themselves and others like them and they do so in service of the Mighty Dollar, and not Christ.  This promotion and pursuit of money, driven by their insatiable greed, represents the wide gate Jesus warned us about.

So, make no mistake about it, Donald J. Trump is not the only false prophet who have been conspiring against the people of this country to steel even more freedom from all of us as they move towards fascism. Donald Trump is not the only false prophet, he is just the most brazen, decadent, outlandish, and flamboyant of them all.  Read the New Testament my friends and tell me where I am wrong.  What are the "fruits" of Donald J. Trump?  Lies.  Brazen corruption (eg receives Jet from Quatar).  Defending the actions of certain ICE agents who are persecuting and violating the rights of Americans openly.  

I'm here because I know you who have been mislead by these wolves in sheep clothing can be returned to the great American flock.  You will no longer feel marginalized, you will no longer feel devalued, you will no longer feel neglected or forgotten, you will no longer feel disrespected, you will no longer feel trodden upon.



"Love thy neighbor as yourself."   
Why?
I. It's good for your own mental health and for healing and for closure.  Holding grudges and being vindictives is never good for anybody.
II. Through God, we exist together as one people, in this TIME and this PLACE in HISTORY.  We are all brothers and sisters because we are all God's children.
III. When you can see yourself in the eyes of another, you will have arrived.  

"Love thy enemy."
Why?  
I.  It makes us afraid.  Fear breeds anger and violence and it shuts down our capacity to think.  
	- we fear immigrants because we fear they will take jobs, change the local culture and be politically disloyal.  We are afraid of losing POWER.  We are afraid of losing MONEY.  We are afraid of losing our FAITH.  I tell you friends, if we continue down this path as a country, our FAITH will truely be lost.  I'm here to help us reclaim, renew and revitalize our FAITH.  
II. You cannot hate that which you understand.  To understand someone is often refered to as empathy.  Empathy is a skill.  
I must say, I have personally struggled with this one because some people do things that are so wrong as far as I'm concerned, it becomes very difficult to understand such people on any level whatsoever.  I've  had this problem with Trump for instance, up until last week.  I saw him smiling in a photo as he received a Nobel Peace Prize trophy that he did not earn and suddenly I no longer saw Donald J. Trump the man... I saw a rather pittiful, boy who's life felt so empty and meaningless, that he thought this trophy would somehow fill that hole in his heart and soul.  It was truely sad.  It was the act of a desperate person who was never shown the path to achieving a fullfilling and meaningful life.  For the first time, Donald J. Trump resembled a human being to me.  This is another good example of  "why?" Jesus' commands should be followed for our  own good. A life of immorality, selfishness, greed, deceit, vindictiveness and meanness will leave you hollow, unfullfilled, unwanted and unloved even by those closest to you.  If we are able to SEE ourselves in those we are inclined to regard as our ENEMIES, then we will be able to have differences of opinions without the meanness and nastiness, the attacks, that only serve to divide OUR PEOPLE.  
III. Jesus loves us all because He understands every one of us.  I'm asking you to remember to follow Jesus, which is exactly what He has asked us to do.



Jesus never spoke much about "why" because often times we presume it does not matter... that we must simply obey because He is Lord.  But it DOES MATTER.  Knowing "why" helps us to more fully understand God.  However, everytime I think about "why?" Jesus commands us to do something, I find that once you fully understand his teachings and his wisdom, the "why?" will become evident and it is always beneficial to the follower.  His commands are good and just and by that I mean, good for the individual, good for communities and indeed, good for the entire human family.  (todo: expand on why Love thy Neighbor and Love thy Enemy are good in these ways without getting into discussion about quantum mechanics, the nature of consciousness/the soul, and the nature of our universe (ie does it lay within a black-hole?).

In the New Testament, various verses talk about a "mark", "name" or "phrase" being on a person's forehead signifying allegiance to the Beast or Jesus.  We're not talking literal marks or writings here necessarily, the "forehead" for instance is referenced to Babylon in Revelations and we are pretty sure Babylon is not referring to a person, therefore it doesn't have a "forehead."  Yet Revelations says the words on her forehead read "Babylon the pro... et.  and of all abominations..."  So we know now that the "forehead" can be a metaphor for SPIRITUAL and/or INTELLECTUAL submission to EVIL.  This manifests itself very obviously and very outwardly in a person in the following 4 ways:
1) their identity and allegience
2) their mindset and character
3) their destiny (via Choices)
4) their consciousness 

So to bring these lost sheep back into the fold, a good shepard must persuade these brothers and sisters to 
1) identify and align themselves with Christ and NOT with things like their bank account balance, misguided view of themselves as being the "real Americans", misplaced Nationalism, or allegiance to something as arbitrary and weightless as their European bloodlines.  Our allegiance is to Jesus.  Our common heritage is our faith.  Anything else is a distant second.  
2) study, learn and understand Jesus' teachings so that their mindset and character can change. 
3) The choices we make determine our Destiny.  So if given a choice... how should we decide to act?  Our choices need to be filtered through the teachings, wisdom, and deeds and body of work that Jesus has demonstrated and provided for us.  This is NOT easy.  Most of us live life on auto-pilot... we are NOT EVEN CLOSE TO THINKING ENOUGH ABOUT whether the day to day choices we make align with our faith.  Is buying a $75,000 vehicle going to bring us closer to God?  What if you bought a 45,000 vehicle and gave 30,000 to some very needy people in this world so that they too could know Jesus through the generosity of his followers?
4) Their Spirit... which fundamentally boils down to their willingness to LOVE vs HATE.  Jesus is asking us to LOVE and reject FEAR, HATE, VIOLENCE.  Again, why?  It's not just because he told us so, it's also because you'll live a happier life on this Earth but also because LOVE (as He has demonstrated) is the BRIDGE to the Father and everlasting life.  

I submit, there would be alot more Christians in this country if the people who professed to be his followers, had truly been emulating him for the last 250 years.  Powerful interests in this country have been beating us over the head for too long making us believe that being a Christian and being Saved is relatively easy.  It is NOT easy.  To the younger generations I might compare it to taking the Red Pill in the Matrix over the Blue Pill.  It is difficult and perilous.  There are powerful forces that are trying to stop them at every turn.  But they aren't fighting for money, or race, or nation...they are fighting for freedom/salvation, for each other (sacrificing themselves)... todo:
Unfortunately, I need to make this point again.  Too many of us simply do not know Jesus.  How can you possibly have a personal relationship with Him if you don't know him?  Jesus wants far far more form us than to simply sing and praise his name on Sundays and pray before meals or on our knees at night before bed.  If you knew Jesus, you would understand that he wants us to FOLLOW his example, to EMULATE him deeds, to EMBODY his character and disposition, and to become WISE and ENLIGHTENED like him.  Doing these things is not just for Him... again... to answer the "why?"  It is for each of US.  Following Christ is the key to living a meaningful life of purpose instead of the empty lives so many of us are feeling we live now becausere we chase things like power, fame, and fortune and the very sorts of things that take us further from God.  Following Christ means helping one another.  Love your neighbor as you love yourself.  This couldn't be any clearer, but sadly, we do not practice it.  Jesus died for OUR sins.  Yes your sins, but also mine, and the person next to you and everyone on this planet who has ever lived and every will live.  He was more than a PERSONAL SAVIOR, he was a SAVIOR to ALL OF HUMANITY.  We need to remember this because again, Jesus' example of sacrifice was 
	1) save humanity on this Earth because we were not ready... we hadn't grown or matured spiritually (and I have news for you folks, we still haven't)
		- the attacks against being "woke" are very strange to me.  I can understand objections to say LGBTQ representation PERHAPS in the media on religious grounds, but I cannot understand HATRED of LGBTQ people.  When you hear people talk about being anti-woke, it all sounds very venomous, hateful, disparaging, dehumanizing.  Why are we doing this?  The worst thing Jesus ever said to anyone was "Oh yee of little faith!"  Even then he is demanding of us, to look inward and to find our FAITH... to strengthen our SPIRITUALITY.  He most certainly never tried to destroy someone's FAITH or mock it... he asks us to nurture it within ourselves and within others.  Love they neighbor.  Love thy enemy.
	2) provide the ultimate example to us of what Love looks like 
	3) to become that BRIDGE to the Father.  

When Jesus drove out the "Legion" (very clearly a reference to the Roman philosophies, teachings, religions and ways of thinking at that time) from two men and drove them into a herd of pigs (this metaphor should be considered... Jesus is telling us that the Romans of that era were of a BEASTLY mindset... bent on conquering, plundering, enslaving, torturing, crucifying, and engaging in all manner of behaviors against their human brothers to strip them of their dignity and humanity.  Again, the metaphor of having driven these demons out into pigs should not be lost on people.  However, the second failure is when the Gentiles who owned the pigs and the surrounding townfolk came to see what had happened, they turned Jesus away even though they recognized that the possessed men were no longer acting like beasts... 




Just as America has.  We've turned Jesus away time and time again...  and it's time to change course.
 

The Trinity
------------------
Some Christians do not belive in the Trinity.  For those of you, I'd like to explain to you what I've learned about that.  First i would like to remind you, all of this I learned or was inspired to understand, by studying the New Testament.  "Study" is the operative word.  A 2000 year old manuscript such as this must be STUDIED and not merely "read."  When studying the Bible there's a lot of contextual information you as the reader must understand.  The Holy Lands in that time were occupied by an invading army... the Romans.  There was no Freedom of Speech.  If you spoke as Jesus did, and particularly if he DID go around answering "why?" he would likely have been crucified alot earlier.  But something I discovered is that the TRINITY or the number 3, is revealed time and time again throughout the NEW TESTAMENT.  Many of the parables for example reveal not just 1 or 2 but THREE levels of meaning.  They generally are viewed as the I. Face value and Historical meanaing, II. the micro (individual/personal/psychological) meaning, and III. the macro the universal\worldly\all of humanity meaning.

I.  The Son -> He can be apart of all of us... as individuals.  Jesus is the "inner-space"  and is the "bridge" to the Father.
II. The Father -> The source of EVERYTHING.  Salvation, Eternal Life, signs, visions, healing, answering of prayers, providing guidance.
III.The Holy Spirit -> the macro-level God that permeats all of a land and it's people.

We KNOW our Country is on the wrong side of God and His Holy Spirit because everything is going wrong and the national mood is one of extreme pessimism.  The spirit that fills the air is the death of the American Dream which in many ways was born out of a Christian way of thinking.... that America was a melting pot where all were welcome, all could fullfil their dreams for a good life for themselves and their families and be apart of a welcoming community of advanced people. But now, the majority of us live in constant fear for the future, our health, our environment, our financial situations (80% of us living paycheck to paycheck), the unfairness we feel with CEOs making 200x the wages of the entirely necessary but not valued-enough workers who make the business function, etc... todo:  In Germany they refer to it as the Zeitgeist...  the Spirit of the Times.  Right now the Spirit is not very well pleased.  This needs to be corrected immediatley.  


12 Foundations of a type of trinity that will make up a renewed America... I. the Individual, II. our Communities and III our Government of the people, by the people and for the people of God.
------------------
Jasper - strenght and endurance
Sapphire - wisdom and divine favor
Chalcedony - serenity, harmony, balance
Emerald - rebirth and eternal love.
Sardonyx - courage and protection
Sardius (Carnelian) - vitality and creativity
Chrysolite - growth (personal growth) and prosperity (not necessarily $$$... there are other types of properity... Live Long & Prosper..)
Beryl (Aquamarine) - peace and clarity
Topaz - strenght and healing
Chrysoprase - joy and abundance
Amethyst - wisdom and tranquility

We will restore the use of the word CITIZEN.
We will no longer refer to our CITIZENS as CONSUMERS or TAX PAYERS as if that is all you are good for to businesses and the government.
We will ensure that LARGE BUSINESSES in this country serve SOCIETY first and not just the few.  We may not even call it Capitalism anymore... lest we find ourselves slipping away from this new American Character 100+ years from now.  Capitalism is what has turned this country into Babylon and why we have incurred God's wrath.  
We will work to create stronger, more resilient, people who will not be easy prey for Satan.  This includes a commitment to holistic education of our young people.
Everyone will be able to work to own a home.  Renting for life with no home to leave one's children will be a thing of the past.
Revival of the Arts by Supporting Creativity and Individual Expression through Art.

Army Corp of Engineers will always be a source of work for any American, including anyone who is currently able-mind and bodies but homeless.  Join the ranks of ACE that will do the hard, but valuable (and valued as their paychecks will show) of transforming and maintaining America as a model society.  We once believed that America was a shining city on a hill... a beacon for the world... that the example of our culture would spread throughout the world and thus ensure peace and prosperity and brotherly love throughout the world... we were wrong.  But the opportunity is not lost.  We will try again.




.... notes from before bed taken on Jan 21st after the first partial draft also on Jan 21st 2026 at the library

cap will go... becuz as long as we compete against one another, we'll always be vulnerable to those who would divide for their own gain
cap as expression of natural law... well, not God's law. capitalism is economic snarchy... well capitalism taken to the extreme is anarchy.. it's rule by strength, power, force. it's gangs of new York. gangs.. and that anarchy has spread into the institutions of government...and technology is used to enforce allegiances.

this is why the haves demonize socialism so much and disregard extreme wealth inequality as not a significant issue.  
They believe this is natural... well, it's not GOOD. animals do not do murder for greed or power. animals don't enslave other animals.

right now, things are barely holding together because the foundation is caving in and everything on top is beginning to slide into the gaping maw...

12 foundations... structure?




Americans have always had a can do spirit... we will put that to the test once again. we can become smarter, closer to Jesus and what he wants for each of us, 

as a country, we must provide all of our citizens with the opportunity to learn Truth. everyone is capable of learning to be able to understand complex ideas or situations and circumstances..m but as a country we too often promote simple versions of complex topics because we don't respect or trust our people enough to understand these things.

ban lies on the airwaves.? hmmm...
we don't allow lies in advertising a product, why do we allow it iwhen advertising a politician running for office, or when describing the affects of a proposed law? or when beating the drums of war? we must get out of the business of lying to our citizens.


Black Sheep - the "curse"
The Black Sheep is blamed, persecuted, villified, destroyed.  "Father, why hath Thou forsaken me?" 
Black Sheep as canaries in the coal mine.  If we are producing alot of Black Sheep, we should be looking as to how our families, communities, businesses and institutions are failing us.  Often times, black sheep start occuring when we are lacking good shepards.  And so these wayward sheep will leave the herd rather than stay where things just don't feel quite right.  Again, canaries in the coalmine... 

Jesus was a Black Sheep amongst the Jews of his era.

"Sell everything and follow me"
"let he who is without sin cast the first stone"
"turn the other cheak"
"easier for a camel to get through the eye of a needle than for a rich man to enter the gates of Heaven."




May 8  2026 - update
the first thing that needs to be done to bring the lost sheep of the far right back into the fokd is to give them back their agency... maximize their free will (keeping in mind that there are degrees of free will )
Jesus message in part is designed to maximize the free will of the individual by not promiting a hierarchy of power... all are truly equal... no judges, police, no kings, no elites, no keepers of the law, etc.

once this is realized, and still following the commandments (all derived from truth and love) , people are truly free to exist and live as the Father intends...  Jordan Peterson claims our system of government needs to be based on "human nature" and it is a big lie.  







