August 25, 2026

Revelation 13:10 in the New International Version (NIV) reads:
 “If anyone is to go into captivity, into captivity they will go. If anyone is to be killed with the sword, with the sword they will be killed.” This calls for patient endurance and faithfulness on the part of God's people. [1]

While reading the above verse in the church today, I had this revelation: This verse is about PSYCHOLOGICAL imprisonment and SPIRITUAL DEATH. 

It's not about if you will become mentally enslaved or experience spiritual death, it's a question of WHEN...

Do you have a strongman in your "house?" to protect you from mental slavery and spiritual death? Maybe you have the strongest man in your house?

Matthew 12:29 - “Or again, how can anyone enter a strong man’s house and carry off his possessions unless he first ties up the strong man? Then he can plunder his house.


As I've stated elsewhere, you can apply the metric "Does this interpretation apply to everyone (as all of Jesus' teachings do) or just special people The above verse references soldiers/people armed with weapons, but the deeper meaning applies to EVERYONE. 

The more you understand Jesus' teachings, the more meaning, such as this one, will be revealed. 

Matthew 13:11 (on why Jesus speaks in parables) He replied, “Because the knowledge of the secrets of the kingdom of heaven has been given to you, but not to them. 12 Whoever has will be given more [EDIT BY ME -> given more revelations/understanding], and they will have an abundance. Whoever does not have, even what they have will be taken from them [EDIT BY ME -> what little understandings they do have will be taken away] . 



I hope this demonstrates that you simply CANNOT have Jesus as your strongman if one does not know his teachings. The full meaning of of captivity and die by the sword, is very difficult to understand (beyond the surface level meaning) IF YOU DO NOT KNOW the Gospels and the meaning of the parables within (Jesus' teachings.)

Beware of false teachings of folks like Ayn Rand and Sigmund Freud (see an excellent documentary "The Century of Self" on https://lnkd.in/gn5ECQAg YouTube as to why. Freud's "Superego" and "Id" is a rip-off and corrupted half-truth lifted from Jesus' Kingdom of Heaven within each of us, where Jesus sits on the throne). Marketing and Political campagins and all manner of psychological operations are based on Freud's "work." 

Also please read my document "The Suppression of Jesus' Teachings by the Romans and Pharisees." 
https://lnkd.in/gYNk5Hbq


I implore you, don't be a
- slave to physical threats/violence, money, power, cruelty/sadism/torture

- death by materialism, capitalism, superficiality, bigotry, racism & xenophobia, megalomania, celebrity/influencer worship, etc.

----
"Why isn't this working?" one agent asks? 

Because Morpheus has a "strongman at home."

The accuser then tries to manipulate Morpheus (you are a virus, a plague, a disease, dirty, smelly, inferior, a dinosaur)
Activate to view larger image,
