(Transcribed by TurboScribe. Go Unlimited to remove this message.)

Oh, July 20th, 2026, this is the second recording I'm making tonight here, so it's 8.16pm, July 20th, Monday, 2026 is the year. And the first recording I made just a little while ago, I ended it, I talked about Trump calling sectors an illusion, why he said that, because the wars themselves are for sectors to lose, because you're only doing these wars for the most part these days, not World War II necessarily, but if you talk about other wars, it's to line the pockets of wealthy people, that's what wars are all about, and only a sucker and a loser would go to a war if it wasn't an existential crisis, like say World War II was a legitimate war, I think, to stop the Nazis, but a lot of these other wars, Vietnam and the Gulf War, WODs that don't exist, all these things, these wars, we have no business being in these wars, with Vietnam and Korea, I don't think we have a business fighting wars that are not existential crisis to the United States, unless, again, if you take those Nazis take over and conquer Europe, they'll be a threat to somebody in the future, plus they're committing humanitarian genocides and whatnot, and that's awful too, so that's not a moral reason to fight them, but there's no moral reasons for what, anyway, so I talk about that, I talk about Google, why Google succeeded at the previous talk, and the only reason I'm reiterating these is in case that other recording is lost somehow, and I want you to know that there was another recording, and that was the things that I talked about, I talked about how the night before I talked about the, some of the talks I talked about, we couldn't use that for life, how to get off autopilot, 40 days and 49 days solitude required, you know, as a doctor says, no, life, an unexamined life is a life not worth living, for example, that's a word on, that's a comment on, about interest being introspective, right, anyway, so I'll just get back to why I started this new recording, I saw some, for some reason, I don't know if they're sending me these subliminal messages with these acoustic ailing devices, but I'm standing in the dinner line, oh no, the lunch line today, it's at the church, I'm in the lunch line, and I just round the corner to the, almost the final stretch, I'm at the back, I'm at the side of the building, where you usually start off in the morning, but now I'm up in the, they call it the arcade, right, and at the end you can see the security guy in the chair, he's got some garbage bags there, in case people have blankets that need to be put into bags before they're allowed inside, so it's almost the final stretch before you get inside the place, so I see this one guy, they have this one tall, really tall, probably one of the tallest security guys they have, he's a white guy, he's got a, he looks like he probably played football back in the day, he's a big guy, tall, but he looks a little, looks a little slow, but he's, I don't think he is, but he looks, he talks with a bit of an accent, I guess, he comes across as a, like he's some kind of really old school gridiron kind of football coach, kind of looks to him a little bit, but he looks a little bit maybe even cross-eyed, he's got some eye issues, I think, so he kind of looks, you know, I believe what that does to you, if you've got some eye issues like that, a lazy eye or cross-eyed, it suddenly can make you look totally, personality-wise, you might make some assumptions about this person that aren't true, and I used to think he was one of the cool guys, but then I discovered, no, he's actually quite awful, this guy, he is really good at coming across as, oh, I'm on your side, don't, you know, I'll help you out, he's really good at it, and because of the way he looks, that helps him sell it, right, because you picture him as some kind of person who maybe had some hardships in his life growing up without their kids because, you know, he's got, maybe he's a little bit cross-eyed or something, he might be getting teased or whatever, so he knows adversity and he's, you know, so you think maybe he might be on your side or something like that, but he's not, and so when I saw him today in the lunch line, all of a sudden, I saw like these two big horns coming out of the front of his head, like the Hellboy kind, just like the Hellboy horns, before he cuts them off, you know, before he grinds them off, he had these Hellboy horns on his head, and I was like, oh, my God, this guy is like, he was one of the, probably the worst one I saw in there, he was the first one I saw this happen to today, and he had these freaking Hellboy horns come out of the front of his freaking forehead, high up, just like, literally just like where Hellboys are, and they were tall, long horns going up just like Hellboys, so if I imagined it, it's just my imagination running wild, then the Hellboys truly had an influence that I wouldn't have been able to picture those otherwise, but that's what his looked like, and I saw this old guy they got who sits there on the chair a lot, he kind of looked like a goat, like a goatish figure, he had these little tiny horns on the side of his head, and he looked like a goat to me, he looked like a billy goat, he had like a little tiny goatee type thing, and he looked like a freaking billy goat, and so I started seeing these, some of these people up in there, were like looking demonic, and I was like, holy shit, I'm like, am I doing this, or am I looking, I mean, what's going on, is it me, is it them, is it subliminal messages, I wasn't sure, but they were looking, I saw this one guy, so I think the second time I went around, or maybe this was just before I saw the Hellboy guy with the cross eyes, I saw this guy on the outside of the, on the sidewalk, and he was walking with his head, his head was all forward, you know, like leaning, like his neck was bent forward, and his head was kind of way ahead of the rest of his body, he was leading as he was walking, and he walked with a little bit of a hunch, and when I saw this guy, he had a metal, a big ass metal spike collar around his neck, and he had three chains attached to it, and there were three little imps guiding him forward, he was being controlled by these little imps, and that's why his neck was down, and he was walking that way, he had three little imps guiding him, with the freaking metal around his collar around his neck, and I'm like, that explains why he was walking that way, he's being, he's got these little demons guiding him, like, literally, he's a slave, he's being dragged around like a freaking dog, with three of these things holding chains that he's attached to, so I was like, what's going on, what am I looking, are they doing this to me, or am I imagining it, or what is going on, so I can't believe I forgot to add this to the, because I thought about it, I was thinking about it, even when I got to the library, I was like, I'm going to start looking at people, I started looking at people, I was like, I want to see what I see, what do I see, who are these people, do I see something for everybody, and I didn't see anything for most people, for the overwhelming vast majority, I saw a guy who had a Grim Reaper next to him, he was leaving the library, he had got up from a computer, and in fact it was the computer, so I usually pick computer 343, there's another one that's 341, he got up from 341, which I can see clearly from the tables that I sit at when I first get to the library, and this guy gets up from the table, he has a backpack on, and he's kind of a little oddly built, he's a little overweight, I don't know, he's probably in his 50s, and to his right side there was a Grim Reaper, walking next to him as he's heading to the elevators, and I'm like, I don't know what this guy, I don't recall ever seeing him again, I never got a good look in front of him, I only saw the back of him, and he had the Grim Reaper walking next to him, as he's walking over to the elevators, and I'm just like watching, I'm not like feeling anything, I'm not feeling like scared or anything, I'm just like, where are these coming from, because I have to constantly question, where are the things that I'm thinking, where are they coming from, is it me or are they sending them to me, and so I just wanted to do this recording, because I did not want to forget to talk about this, because this was some weird, weird, weird, weird, super, super weird stuff, I've never had this happen before, other than the locust hallucination I had, I had a locust hallucination I had many months ago, like kind of probably the first two months that I was here, I had a hallucination of a locust, when I say locust, a white supremacist, just its head and a little diminutive body, the tiniest body you can imagine, and it was wrapped in like a symbiote, like a venom, in the movie Spider-Man, venom's got this stretchy symbiote, and it's like a plasticky, and so this locust, this white supremacist, he had tattoos from the temple all the way down, his temple all the way down both sides of his face, I can only see the one side, but I'm assuming it was symmetrical, down the side of his right face, his right side I could see clearly, and all his neck, all going down his neck and into his collar, and he had a mullet and blondish hair and a mullet, and I haven't seen that since, I haven't seen that hallucination since, whether it was a hallucination or a vision or what it was, but it was real, when I got up, I'm on the sidewalk lying down, I'm in the exact same spot right now where I saw this vision, I'm lying down right now in that same spot, when I pushed my arms up to get my upper body off the ground, to prop myself up, it was still there, it moved, and it was moving properly, as far as how, it wasn't like it was moving, like it was an optical illusion that was tied to a certain position, and relationship to my orientation and my position, it stayed where it was, and when I moved it stayed where it was, and I could see more around it and stuff, and it looked like it fit in perfectly, it wasn't like some artifact, or something that was like a projection, it didn't look like a projection or anything like that, it was totally real, 100% real, and then when I blinked my eyes, because my eyes were wide open, I'm just staring at this thing, like why am I seeing this, what's the purpose of this, and I wasn't scared of it at all, and when I blinked my eyes, suddenly it turned into a trash bag, suddenly I'm looking at a regular black trash bag, after I blinked my eyes, that's what it turned into, and I said, oh well that's the trash bag I had there last night, and I'd never put that trash bag there before, but that particular night I had this trash bag there for the first time, and I saw that vision, or hallucination, or whatever you want to call it, so yeah, today was very freaky, because again, it didn't alarm me, but I'm like, am I really seeing who these people really are, these are demons, or these are people being controlled by demons, some of them were like a cross-eyed guy, he was a freaking demon, and then there's others who are literally just being enslaved by demons, and then I started thinking about, in my mind, a demon, because in my mind, one of the parables, when Jesus casts a demon out of this guy in the church, and he's in synagogue, and this guy stands up and he says, we know who you are, you are the son of God, and have you come here to destroy us? And Jesus says nothing, but it just says he casts the demon out, and with authority, and the people are like, oh my gosh, a new lesson learned, a new teaching, and with such authority, is what they say. I believe this is Matthew, relatively early on in Matthew, and so what is the teaching? And I believe when I interpreted that parable, I said Jesus is actually preventing himself from having any demons, and the demon would have been this lack of humility, to say, I am the son of God, do you know who I am? And so when this demon says, we know who you are, you are the son of God, and Jesus is like, no, I don't do that, I am humble, I am the son of man, I don't go around name-dropping, if you will, I don't go around name-dropping, I am the son of, and so when I interpret that parable, it's Jesus remaining humble, and preventing that demon from taking root inside him.

He says, no, you're not going to do that, you're gone, and so the teaching that they learn is humility, the teaching they learn that what Jesus performed was being humble and staying humble, even someone like him staying humble, that was the teaching, because otherwise you're like, he didn't even say anything, what could they have possibly learned? He literally said nothing except, the demon was cast out with a shriek. So I started thinking about what is the nature of demons, if they are in you, what if demons are, if you think about where does consciousness, where does the mind come from, where does memories come from, if these are our brains connecting to other dimensions within our own universe, but dimensions that are required for the universe, for the functioning of the universe, that the brain is able to tap into quantum mechanics of these different dimensions, maybe demons can come from there, and maybe these are manifestations that are part of memories, and if somebody turns, if Satan entered them, like when Judas says, Satan entered him, maybe, I used to think that just meant, a person just kind of allowed some negative, or some jealousy, but then just start thinking, what are these things? What is jealousy? What is a lack of humility? What are these things? Where do they come from? Are they not part of us? Do they come from the same place our memories come from? Do they come from the same place where we experience consciousness, or awareness, and maybe these things are things that we can, that can tap into us if we're not careful, and we need to guard against, and maybe I can see them sometimes, starting today, with these people with the chains around their neck, or the freaking cross-eyed guy with the freaking cowboy horns, and the goat man, so I don't know what to tell you. I just wanted to record that.

I know I'm coming across as a crazy man at this point. I totally get it. I'm totally sounding crazy.

Maybe that's what they want to do. Maybe they want to send these to me. I go around talking about goat horns, and hellboy man, and all this stuff, and suddenly I look totally freaking bonkers, right? So I'm well aware of this, but I'm just documenting it, man.

That's all. I'm just documenting it, and trust me, I'm not crazy, and I'm not frightened by these things. I've been dealing with these people already for so long, but now I'm just sort of seeing them maybe.

I'm getting some visual aids to just really see what these people are, and don't ever forget these people are, oh, by the way, the one guy who comes across as like some former soldier guy, always with the khakis and the black top, and the khakis, the red and yellowish kind of guy. When I saw him, I saw him as a, you know, I'm kind of forgetting, because he was off to my side, and I didn't want to look at him. He was off to my right when I had gotten past the hellboy guy, and I saw the goat guy down the end.

I saw the goat guy. I was already seeing him when I was still way back far away from him, and then this other guy that comes across as some kind of proud boy kind of guy, kind of big guy, but he sounds like he's got this boyish personality. I think he's from the New England area.

I think he's from Boston. He doesn't have an accent, but I think he might be from Maine or something. I don't know, because I've heard him mention New England a few times, or Rhode Island or something.

But anyway, this guy, what did I see of this guy? I'm kind of forgetting him, because I was curious, but at the same time, I didn't want to look at him, because that particular guy, he seems to want to go out of his way. He's always near me. He's always around, and he always wants to say hello, not so much anymore, and I just want to ignore the heck out of this guy.

I don't want to look at him. He's an awful person. He's one of these guys, again, who wants to get you to believe he's cool, but he's totally not.

He's totally a piece of crap, and it almost seems like a game to him, whether he can F with you over and over and over again and still get you to think he's okay, and every day, it's like a game for this guy that he can do that to you, and I finally learned. It's like, wait a second. This guy's trash, and never again will I ever fall for this fast-talking or this, call it charm if you want.

He wants to try to charm you somehow, something like that, right? I'm going to classify it as something like that. Think of it as a type of PSYOP bullshit, a type of tactic that this guy tries to employ on people, right? So that's how I kind of imagine it, if he's trained in that regard. But anyways, yeah, there was something.

I can't remember what I saw about him out of the corner of my eye to my right when he was there. So I guess I'm not going to. I think he had these.

I'm not going to say. I'm not going to say. I'm going to leave it at that.

I'm going to stop this video's recording, rather. 18 minutes, 13 seconds in. It's 8.34 p.m. It's July 20th, Monday, the year 2026.

In San Francisco. I'm lying down right now with my elbow propping my body up here underneath the mural against Gliada Memorial Church at the corner of Ellis Street, ELLIS, and Taylor Street.

(Transcribed by TurboScribe. Go Unlimited to remove this message.)