(Transcribed by TurboScribe. Go Unlimited to remove this message.)

So today is July Monday July 20th Yeah, monday july 20th 2026 It's about uh 7 46 p.m. We're just doing this recording to just Log what I talked about the things I talked about today I haven't been writing my journals for consistently for a long time. I've did the digital journals somewhat But I don't write them like I used to do in a written form in my written journal anymore I haven't been doing that for some time. I've been doing these digital instead sometimes I my phone store or whatever. 

I lose them Um, anyway, so but sometimes I do a lot. I do a lot of talking outside various places from the glide library inside outside the library Outside of glide outside of st. Anthony's inside the dining room of st. 

Anthony's today. Here's some just some just some things I talked about um, I talked about how uh, you know when trump calls, uh You know people suckers and losers for being in the military I think I started off because I talked about my dad not my dad was betrayed by this country He was a two-tour vietnam war vet And his second tour was a combat that he would he I think he had approximately three medals, I think Somewhere like something like that. I think he had three medals He used to keep it in a soft drawer and I would just kind of as a little kid I would just kind of look at them from time to time. 

I knew where he kept them and I would just like look at Them just like whoa, you know how cool these are Anyways, you just kind of imagine like what how are you? I guess I don't really remember. Um, But I just was fascinated by him just looking at them. I just thought they were cool and all that stuff like a little kid, right um admiring, you know, the Accomplishments whatever they were, you know of his dad. 

That's basically what that was So anyways, I was I think I might have been talking about just how he's betrayed by this country and uh Talking about this right-wing piece of shit nurse He had at the da west los angeles who did this whole tada when he was putting the catheter on and nature Happens because he's freaking doing it forever. He has me forcing me basically to help him uh do this and he has me standing there because because he's like you're gonna help me change the sheets and It's just catheter and i'm like I'm like, oh god. Okay, you know he decided to be a nice guy and help this freaking right piece of crap But he's you know, he's a plant. 

He's he's got an agenda. He's a right wing piece of shit. Probably a racist. 

I'm sure And so anyways, I started talking about um how trump calls Um, well he was he was putting his catheter on he took forever. He's making inappropriate comments with my dad Uh, oh, this is so slippery slippery like a bull, you know saying a bunch of evil shit, you know And he's like gotta be standing there. I'm looking straight ahead. 

I'm not looking down. I'm looking I don't want to be my dad I'm looking straight ahead like trying to avoid looking there at all and I for the most part that worked except till the very end And he's like tada And after like, you know five minutes effing around trying to put this catheter on right and i'm not Talking about slippery things and all this bullshit Then nature happens and uh, he's like tada you know, I mean Oh my god, if anybody needed to be slapped and you know Slapped silly right then that would be that guy That was the da west south angela side when my dad was in and out of there Too many times unfortunately before he passed And uh, but anyway, so I here i'm trying to glide which is where i'm sleeping right now. I'm lying down. 

I'm gonna get to zero um, and I remember I was talking about maybe my dad being disrespected as a well, uh, excuse me a vietnam war vet and two tours and and how he wasn't he was a draft dodger like freaking, uh, Trump then I said, oh by trump said trump called people suckers and losers for For for dire people who died in in wars and uh, and I said, you know Do you know why trump probably said that think about why why somebody might actually say that you can say most people just get emotional I'm included when I first heard I just like oh, wow. He just he just Insulting people just for the sake of insulting people or he thinks he thinks he's superior and there's not a reason I think why he said that because I think Saint that phrase Also suggests that he believes that the reason for the wars Because not all wars are you're not a sucker loser for if you join any war like just fighting literally fighting for your freedom You've got some invaders coming in you're fighting for your freedom. You're not a sucker loser, obviously Um, you're you're gonna be you're you're you're a hero and you're a patriot, right? but if you're fighting for some war that's gonna line the pockets of some wealthy old white person Who's and you're going against your own interests. 

You're not fighting for your own Security your nation's security you're fighting for to make to enrich some some oligarchs. You're fighting to enrich some elites, you know And that is for suckers and losers and moreover If you're a trump and you're you believe they're suckers and losers and you've become president and you send them to these wars Now you're totally evil because now you're sending in your mind suckers and losers to to to fight the wars To die if necessary so that people like him can line their pockets that makes him so evil And it's one thing to say. Hey, I I think you're suckers and losers That's why i'm never gonna send you to war I will never send you to war because I think it's for suckers and losers unless it's an existential crisis for this nation and we need to fight to protect our land and our Our way of life and there's an imminent threat that's actually coming here But that's not the case with any of these wars. 

They may try to use that language and convince us That's the case, but it's not the case. We don't have to we haven't had any tragedy Our borders or anything like that canada's not trying to invade mexico's not trying to invade The way south america's on a march across the boats from china are coming here You know russia's not sending anybody anyways let's see the other thing I talked about was uh Uh google again. Why did how did google succeed where uh, lycos and netscape? What was that? Well, let's give you had a web browser web crawler was around Um all these different web engines search engines that existed back in the day Why did yahoo? Why didn't any of those succeed where google succeeded? I believe the answer is that uh, google found google Realized that it wasn't just about coming up with the best search results uh, and uh being able to find the best results for a person, uh, you know when they're when they're spidering the web and Tracking and logging every single article and everything like that But no, it's because google google figured out that's probably when their engineers are like hey The money is in tracking the people Knowing everything we can about them over time because they're gonna be tracking all the other sites They go to we're gonna build a a a a portfolio on every person or profile in every person And then we're gonna be able to serve them Results on their searches that are geared just for them We can now shape it my shape their minds too. 

We can shape their minds And that's where the money's at. It's like shaping minds It is very similar to what advertisers would love to be able to do know about the person Uh, the news wants to shape your mind programming in general on tv wants to shape your mind um And uh advertisers want to want to shape your mind. They want you to buy their products They want you to the corporations want you to believe in their brand. 

They believe that they're great believe that everything's great So this is where google google made their money uh by By figuring out it wasn't just about the search results and finding the most accurate and best results It was about being able to serve them custom Uh content if you will a result is now is now content. It's now Personalized and uh, it's not just the same thing that everybody gets when they search for the exact same search term It's not necessarily true and so the search results is very much probably run the same way that the ads run in terms of the Software on the back end when it determines what's going to what you're going to get. It's probably very very similar to Um how the ads are selected is how the content is selected So if you're have right-wing leanings, you're probably gonna get certain types of content results that a left-wing person probably they're not gonna get You know, it depends right? So that's what google uh, that was their one of their probably their their um, Their some some guy's brainstorm or sergey or whoever it was said. 

Oh my god We can literally start to shape people's minds By controlling what they see and read in by the search results. We can feed them what we want to feed them You know, so anyway, so that's that's what else I talk about. Um Today, uh Uh, that's worth talking about now, I mean it's worth remembering just just kind of keeping a log of it, uh Oh, I don't know. 

Um Uh, I don't know I suppose it's about eight minutes 48 seconds into this thing so i'm gonna cut this off now and uh, I do think of anything else that's worth, uh, logging here and And So that i'll remember, you know some of these things that I talked about, you know, I I talked about yet last night I talked a lot of again about um Reclaiming your zest for life and how to get off autopilot Um things I used to talk about all the time all the time back in l.a on the buses all the time But I I kind of stopped doing that here Especially once I started reading the new testament. I started talking more about um Jesus I talked about um, how does jesus fulfill the law because people don't really I believe understand what that means when jesus because they Don't know the parables because they don't know jesus teachings. There's no way they can know How jesus intends to fulfill the law there's simply no way they can know this similarly. 

There's no way they can know You know some of these parables like for example when jesus says, um, if you have a disagreement or uh, uh an argument or some type of disagreement with the with the fellow in the within the church You you you must resolve that between yourselves before you get to Court before you get to court uh You have to do this before you go to a courthouse or else he says the the court will may have may send you off to the To the to the officer of the court and the officer of the court may throw you in jail And you will not get out until you've paid every single penny What does that mean i'll tell you what it means you're not going to know this parable There's no way to decipher that parable if you do not understand jesus message overall that he's trying to get people to become spiritually awake and that he's trying to get everyone to be equal And what he's saying is if you have a problem with this is The caption in the niv bible for that verse or for that chapter rather is problems within the church So this adversary this rival is not just some Enemy from a distant land who doesn't believe what you believe. This is specifically someone who believes what you believe So if you have a conflict with someone who believes what you believe following the way of jesus Then you must resolve that problem between you before You attempt to create a court to arbitrate The problem because once you start to create a court And you start to create hierarchies you're losing equality that you that your utopia is founded on now you have a hierarchy And you're and you now you've got a judge now You've got a officer of the court who can jail you and suddenly your utopia Is gone. It is the beginning of the end of your utopia and now You will never get back to that utopia Until you've paid every single penny in order to get back to the utopia things have to get so freaking dark and miserable To get back to that utopia. 

That's what he means by you will pay every single penny You will never get out until you pay every single penny. That's what a lot of ways This nation might be going through now. We are going to pay every single penny With this darkness that's coming and that's here already and for me at least and it's going to be coming for everybody soon with mass surveillance and mass, uh oppression and and uh And and and when people have no, you know people getting picked up in the middle of the night for having thoughts That they are being mined right and suddenly you got a hundred people across the city Getting all of a sudden picked up all at once just because they thought about organizing some kind of resistance And they thought to gather the next day, but no they're picked up in the middle of the night because they already were detected They were their thoughts were read And so this kind of evil repression that were that nightmare dystopian future. 

We're we're heading towards Um, we're gonna pay every single penny the people in this country gonna pay every the world gonna pay every single penny until they say look we have to get we have to overhaul our entire civilization. We have to follow the way of jesus because And we cannot have these quote-unquote courts anymore these hierarchies these people who are able to judge us and order us And jail us and everyone has to be equal. We should be able to solve our problems amongst each between each other as equals So I talked about that too Um and uh, and how we know how the american people christians in the west. 

They know more about santa claus than they know about jesus Uh jesus, they know he was born in a manger, uh to a virgin mother on christmas christmas day december 25th. They know that he was um He died on good friday was crucified by the romans and uh On by by the behest of the pharisees and that he uh was resurrected three days later He died first and he was resurrected three days later If you believe in him, you're going to have that's like three pages of the 60 pages roughly i'm guessing of the gospels um and um And but but what do we know about santa claus? Oh heck a lot more about santa claus um, we know Because there's six there's 57 pages or so in the gospels. I'm just being rough guesstimating because different bibles different page lengths and Stuff like that, but let's say there's 60 pages total of all the gospels and there's three pages people know about They don't know about anything else they don't know that dj was a rabbi a teacher they don't know this they don't even care And but what do we know about santa claus? Oh, well, he's a big batman old man a big white spear red suit Um, and uh, he he he lives in the north pole He's got a wife and he's got a bunch of elves slaves working for him making toys and then and uh He makes toys all year round But then on christmas eve he goes out on his magic sleigh with the eight reindeers We know all the names of their reindeers, I don't remember all of them Dasher prancer downer and vixen all this stuff, right? Rudolph the red-nosed ranger has a red nose and They can fly this lift and fly they can fly at the speed of light and get to all these houses All only the good kids. 

They've got a list. They keep track of all the good naughty naughty kids Only the good kids get presents and he can do this all in in 24 hours uh before or Over christmas eve and deliver all these presents and um And he says ho ho ho allied and he uh eats he eats milk and cookies and he's Invades your house or flies down Invades your house and leaves presents and and uh, and so we know more about About santa claus that is elves make all these toys year-round and you know more about santa claus Than we know about jesus. It seems like in this country. 

I'm not kidding. That's that's crazy, right? That's pretty darn crazy. And you hear these people talk about oh jesus is my is my um Most important person in my life and jesus is uh, um I have a personal relationship with jesus, but they don't even know him How can you have a personal relationship with someone you barely know? They don't even want to know him. 

It's like what's going on, right? It's so crazy. It is so crazy Uh, i've talked about the comparison. How can you call yourself a doctor if um, You don't even know what's inside of a medical book You don't you haven't you don't you just know you just know like some some broad basic things that everybody knows But you don't actually know the the the the where the what the pulmonary system does You don't know what the lymph nodes do you don't know what the what the respiratory system does You don't know what the cardiovascular system does. 

You don't know, you know, um How the nervous system works and you don't know all these things, but you want to say you're a doctor somehow, you know That's what that's what christians are in this country. It's it's identity politics only and labels and slogans That's what christianity is is in this country. It's identity politics politics labels and slogans And um, it's not about actual spirituality. 

There's no spirituality in in christian christianity the way it's practiced in the united states There's no actual spirituality to it it is simply Slogans and words and praises and singing there's no spirituality to it. There's no knowledge of his teachings There's no knowledge of why they don't know that jesus is a logical reasonable rational person his What he advises and what he tells us to do is not Dogma it is not decrees from a deity. That is jesus was humble. 

He washed people's feet. He does not even want to be Sung about and pray he wants you to go out and do for the least of these He wants you going out emulating him and his work and his body of work his body of work is He wants you to to emulate him to do what he does You take 40 days and 40 nights. This is not this is another thing. 

Uh, the bible should be looked at as an instruction manual Jesus can go 40 days and 40 nights before he started his ministries the to uh to get himself ready to become a To teach the word then you can Take 40 days and 40 nights if you are in a transition or want to make a change or transition in your life You can take 40 days and 40 nights of solitude doesn't have to be out in the wilderness Doesn't have to be out in nowhere's land, but it does you do have to have Alone time no interruption because all these people and friends and family no, uh telephone no internet no Cellphones no tv. No radio just a book a couple of books Maybe the bible of course and something to write on pen and paper and that's it. No computers No, no other distractions. 

And yeah, you can take yeah, if you run out of food go out get some food You can see people you're not saying you need to go out in the wilderness Go get some food go back if you need and then stay back in your wherever you are buy food for three or four days and And then wait till you run out again and that's when you go out again but otherwise you're you're really you're really serious about staying indoors and being alone and And not having the distractions and just look and there's no other there's no other rules Um, that's important. There's no other rules. Jesus didn't leave any rules. 

So there's no other rules all it is is What you'll find is you'll invariably start maybe you'll just sleep and take it easy But you invariably when you finally start to get it. It's like well, what am I trying to do? You start Thinking about your life. You start thinking about yourself. 

You're talking about your family How you got to where you are where you want to go in life Do you want to go somewhere where do you want to go? You'll you'll start to ask questions then you'll think about you'll start thinking about what's out there You know, what are you what are your feelings about God? What do you know about God? How come you don't know more? Do you want to know more? You're going to start being introspective and sort of Outrospective you're going to be searching internally and searching externally and that's how you That that is a requirement for becoming Uh spiritually awake is taking that time out. It's also a requirement if you want to change the direction of your life It's also a requirement if you want to um uh Overcome some something like let's say an addiction or something if you want to overcome some 40 days and 40 nights Could be the the the type of thing to do. Um, it's not going to hurt you. 

It's not going to harm you to try this Uh, will it work for everybody? Maybe not. Maybe not the first time maybe not Maybe maybe maybe a few efforts Maybe it gets better and you keep doing it and you and it takes it takes several different attempts but uh Until until you get it, right. Um And uh, and uh, that's so that's pretty much all i'm talking about. 

So 19 minutes 41 seconds. I'm gonna end this right now Uh, those are the main things I talked about uh last day and day and a half or so and uh, i'll leave it at that for uh, it's uh, It's uh, eight, uh, 8 0 6 p.m. It's uh, uh, july Uh july 20th july 20th Monday 2026 year in san francisco outside of glade memorial church

(Transcribed by TurboScribe. Go Unlimited to remove this message.)