Sept 25, 2005 10:45pm

Earlier today I watched a video "Exposing the Illuminati From Within."  Fascinating in many respects and equally nausiating in others.  The speaker presented me with lots of new names and topics which ive been googling.  So irrespective of the speaker's true motivations (scammer, peddler of books, fear / war monger, etc) the video peaked my curiosity to research various themes and stopics such as the Masons, the Druids, the Church of Satan and the Temple of Set.

Reading The Temple of Set which is a religion taht strives to revitalize hte beliefs and rituals of ancient Egyptians, it occurred to me that hte usage of the word "patron" (as in Saint) in reference to historical figures that attained such status is similar to the demi-god like status of Greek and Roman figurs like Hercules and Achilles.  In effect, heros of the era become admired and heralded.

When i was a kid, i had pictures of Michael Jordaon in my room. In effect, I admired him and held him in high regard as a role model. Imagine now thousands of years ago people doing this and doing so with statues and portraits and such.  And imagine over time greater and greater mythos and legend and lore surrounding their history.  

In modern times i wonder if great "heros" of our time (hero loosly used to regard ANY person who transcends averageness in the eyes of many and is able to produce great things or accomplish great feats) are destroyed / attempted to be destroyed by Christian subcultures.  (Incidentally its one aspect of the Church of Satan and Temple of Set that appeals to many because Christian dogma in some respects seem to be against the natural order of things.  Of course this too may be a reflection of the historical life and teachings of J/C being co-opted and used for the advancement of a new controlling religion.  Or maybe J/C himself was responsible for the teachings of man to abandon science and astronomy for a lesser/simpler religion that lesser minds would flock too.

So many questions and theories.


Another theory id like to investigate is that of the rise of the Religions of Ignorance (and isnt it interesting [if indeed generally true] that Judaism, Christianity and Islam all hide the original origins of their historical events in allegory and myth and in fact seem to be anti-science.  Myths rule over observable phenomena and the truth is clouded by fantasy tales) was perpetuated by intelligent power seeking men who used the power of the mobs of unintelligent people to overwhelm the philosphers and scientists.  [also, Christianity for example seems to admonish the rise of science when Eve takes from the tree of knowledge... to denounce man's gift of reason.  Again, great american's like Thomas Paine even demonstrate this in his "The Age of Reason")

Indeed, the appeal to the ignorance and fears of the mob (and lesser human traits) to caste superior ideas of science and philosophy as witchcraft (since it could not be grasped or understood easily by the illiterate, uneducated and (set in their ways) masses.

 